



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                            25 July 2026
Expires: 26 January 2027


      Identity Continuation Assertion for OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange
        draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion-latest

Abstract

   This document profiles OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange to define the
   Identity Continuation Assertion: a short-lived, sender-constrained
   JSON Web Token (JWT) that carries verifiable evidence of a delegation
   chain into a Token Exchange request.  A Continuation Authorization
   Server can then issue an onward authorization grant without
   subjecting the user to a new interactive authentication.  The primary
   use case is same-Identity-Provider (same-IdP) chaining between
   software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications, in which several Resource
   Authorization Servers trust a single enterprise IdP and each names
   the user under its own audience-local (pairwise) subject identifier.
   Because each Resource Authorization Server trusts only the IdP to
   name the user, because only the IdP holds the map from a root
   delegation to each audience's subject, and because crossing a
   boundary that renames the user is a re-issuance rather than an
   attenuation, the IdP remains the sole issuer of the onward Identity
   Assertion JWT Authorization Grant (ID-JAG) at every cross-boundary
   hop.  The assertion is the evidence carried into the exchange; the
   resulting grant is the authority.  This profile complements, and does
   not replace, offline attenuated delegation, which is appropriate for
   intra-domain fan-out that does not change the user's subject
   identifier.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-
   assertion/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion.html.
   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-
   continuation-assertion/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-
   assertion.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 26 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Why a New Input Is Needed
     1.2.  Core Principle
     1.3.  Relationship to ID-JAG and Identity Chaining
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  When to Use This Profile Versus Offline Attenuation
   4.  The Identity Continuation Assertion
     4.1.  Token Type and Media Type
     4.2.  Claims
     4.3.  Claims That Are Deliberately Excluded
     4.4.  Assertion Issuance and Key Binding
     4.5.  Chain-Context Provenance
     4.6.  An HTTP Binding for Chain Context
   5.  Continuation Handles (identity_continuation_handle)
     5.1.  Handle Freshness and Unlinkability
   6.  Chain Lifetime and Revocation
   7.  Token Exchange Profile
     7.1.  Direct ID-JAG Request
     7.2.  Establishing a Chain
     7.3.  Chained ID-JAG Request
     7.4.  Sender-Constrained Presentation
     7.5.  Client Identity and Authentication
     7.6.  The identity_continuation_handle Response Parameter
     7.7.  Authorization Server Metadata
   8.  Same-IdP Core Flow
   9.  IdP Validation for the Continuation Exchange
   10. Onward ID-JAG
   11. Security Considerations
     11.1.  Sender Constraint and Proof of Possession
     11.2.  Short Lifetime and Replay
     11.3.  Root Authentication Context
     11.4.  Envelope Enforcement and Offline Attenuation
     11.5.  Trust in the Chain Authority
     11.6.  Trust in Actor Token Issuers
     11.7.  Actor Chain Integrity
     11.8.  Token, Type, and Algorithm Confusion
   12. Privacy Considerations
   13. IANA Considerations
     13.1.  OAuth URI Registration
     13.2.  Media Type Registration
     13.3.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     13.4.  OAuth Parameters Registration
     13.5.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
     13.6.  HTTP Field Name Registration
   14. References
     14.1.  Normative References
     14.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Design Rationale
     A.1.  Why Not a Profile of ID-JAG
     A.2.  Why Not a Profile of a Transaction Token
     A.3.  Why Not a Cross-Domain Propagation Token
     A.4.  Alternative Topology: Resolution at the Target
     A.5.  Why a Signed Assertion Rather Than a Bare Grant Type
   Appendix B.  Worked Example (Same-IdP)
     B.1.  First Hop: Direct ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS
     B.2.  Crossing the Boundary into TravelSaaS
     B.3.  Obtaining the Identity Continuation Assertion
     B.4.  Chained Exchange for the TravelRAS ID-JAG
     B.5.  Using the TravelRAS ID-JAG
     B.6.  Third Hop After Offline Delegation
     B.7.  Reaching a Target Outside the Trust Circle
   Appendix C.  Background Agent Example (User-Scheduled Continuation)
     C.1.  Setup (Alice Present)
     C.2.  Each Run (Alice Absent)
     C.3.  Points Worth Noticing
     C.4.  A Dynamic Target
   Appendix D.  Gateway Example (Dynamic Upstream Audiences)
     D.1.  Root Exchange: The Runtime Roots the Chain
     D.2.  Chained Exchange: The Gateway Continues
     D.3.  Points Worth Noticing
   Appendix E.  Open Items for Working Group Discussion
   Acknowledgments
   Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Modern enterprise software-as-a-service (SaaS) deployments
   increasingly chain calls across application boundaries on behalf of a
   single human user.  A user authenticates once at an enterprise
   Identity Provider (IdP) and invokes an application; completing the
   user's request requires that application to call a second
   application, which in turn must call a third.  Increasingly the
   calling party is an automated agent acting for the user, fanning out
   onward calls while the user is no longer present, which makes this
   pattern both more common and more acute.  Each application exposes an
   API protected by its own Resource Authorization Server (RAS), and all
   of these Resource Authorization Servers trust the same enterprise IdP
   for single sign-on (SSO), for delegation continuity, and for
   resolving the user's identity into an audience-local subject
   identifier.

   The key use case addressed by this document is therefore:

   ExpenseSaaS calls TravelSaaS. TravelSaaS must call BookingSaaS.
   Each SaaS API is protected by its own Resource Authorization Server.
   All Resource Authorization Servers trust the same enterprise IdP for
   SSO, delegation continuity, and audience-local subject resolution.

   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseSaaS/ExpenseRAS -> TravelSaaS/TravelRAS
              -> BookingSaaS/BookingRAS

   The user authenticates once at the enterprise IdP and is never
   redirected through a new interactive flow for an onward hop.  The IdP
   remains the trust anchor, and each onward grant is audience-scoped
   and carries the subject identifier appropriate for its target RAS.

1.1.  Why a New Input Is Needed

   The first hop is an ordinary identity assertion exchange: ExpenseApp
   holds a credential for the authenticated user (for example, an ID
   Token or refresh token) and exchanges it at the IdP for an Identity
   Assertion JWT Authorization Grant (ID-JAG), exactly as in
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].  Every subsequent
   hop is different.  By the time TravelSaaS must call BookingSaaS, the
   user is no longer present and TravelSaaS holds no end-user credential
   it could present to the IdP; the only thing that crossed the
   ExpenseSaaS-to-TravelSaaS boundary is chain context.  TravelSaaS
   therefore cannot perform a normal identity assertion exchange to
   obtain the next grant, even though the same IdP could mint it.

   This document defines the missing input.  An Identity Continuation
   Assertion is a short-lived, sender-constrained, verifiable statement
   about the in-flight delegation chain.  A service presents it to the
   IdP in place of an end-user credential, so that the IdP can resolve
   the next audience's subject and issue the next onward grant.  It is
   the evidence; the ID-JAG that comes back is the authority.

1.2.  Core Principle

   Each RAS trusts only the IdP to name the user and to scope authority
   over its resources; it does not accept another SaaS domain's word for
   either.  The IdP therefore remains the issuer at every cross-boundary
   hop as a matter of trust direction, whatever form subject identifiers
   take.  Pairwise subjects strengthen that trust rule into a structural
   impossibility: where each RAS resolves the user under its own
   audience-local subject identifier, only the IdP holds the map from
   the root delegation to those per-audience subjects, and no downstream
   party or offline authority can mint a correct onward sub.
   Deployments whose subject identifiers are globally consistent (for
   example, email-based) still require the IdP at every hop for trust
   direction and revocation; adopting audience-local subjects
   additionally yields the pairwise privacy property.

   An onward hop that re-subjects the user is therefore a re-issuance,
   not an attenuation.  A holder can only narrow authority it already
   possesses; it cannot synthesize a subject it was never issued.  The
   end-user credential that authorized the first hop is not available to
   downstream services, so before the IdP can mint the next grant it
   needs fresh, sender-constrained evidence that the in-flight
   delegation is still live and still represents this user.  The
   Identity Continuation Assertion is that evidence; it is used as a
   Token Exchange subject token to obtain an onward ID-JAG, the output
   profile of this document.

   The profile therefore serves two inseparable requirements of this
   deployment model: identity continuity, resolving the same root user
   into each new audience-local subject, and authorization continuity,
   proving that the requested onward authority remains within the root
   delegation.

   This document defines the evidence format, Token Exchange parameters,
   validation rules, and IANA registrations needed for that exchange.
   It does not define a new access token format, does not allow a
   Resource Server to consume the Identity Continuation Assertion
   directly, and does not allow a Chain Authority to name the user for
   the target audience.

1.3.  Relationship to ID-JAG and Identity Chaining

   This profile builds directly on OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange [RFC8693]
   and JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) [RFC7519], and it is a continuation
   extension of the ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] within the cross-
   domain model of OAuth Identity and Authorization Chaining Across
   Domains [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining].  ID-JAG covers the
   exchange at the first hop, where the requester still holds an end-
   user credential.  It does not by itself cover later hops, where a
   downstream service holds no end-user credential to exchange and
   cannot mint the next audience's subject (Section 1.2).  This profile
   supplies the missing input for those hops and reuses ID-JAG unchanged
   as the onward grant type, rather than defining a competing grant.

   It composes with, and is positioned relative to, the Workload
   Identity in Multi-System Environments (WIMSE) architecture
   [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch] and offline attenuated delegation tokens used
   for intra-domain fan-out.

   Concretely, this profile adds to the ID-JAG exchange: a new
   subject_token type (Section 4.1) for the continuation evidence, the
   identity_continuation_handle and identity_continuation_exp response
   parameters with their control-plane handling (Section 7.2,
   Section 5), the IdP validation rules for a continuation request
   (Section 9), an OPTIONAL HTTP binding for conveying chain context
   (Section 4.6), and an authorization server metadata signal
   (Section 7.7).  The onward ID-JAG and the way a Resource
   Authorization Server consumes it are unchanged.

   Open design questions on which the author seeks working group
   feedback are collected in Appendix E.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses the following terms:

   Identity Provider (IdP):  The enterprise authority that authenticates
      the user, anchors trust for a set of Resource Authorization
      Servers, holds the map from a root delegation to each audience's
      subject identifier, and issues onward authorization grants.  In
      this profile, the IdP is the Continuation Authorization Server.

   Continuation Authorization Server:  The Authorization Server to which
      an Identity Continuation Assertion is presented to obtain an
      onward grant.  In the same-IdP use case of this document, it is
      the enterprise IdP at every hop.

   Resource Authorization Server (RAS):  An Authorization Server that
      protects a particular SaaS API and trusts the enterprise IdP for
      SSO and subject resolution.  It consumes an ID-JAG as an
      authorization grant and issues access tokens for its API.

   Resource Server (RS):  The service that hosts a protected API and
      consumes the access tokens issued by its Resource Authorization
      Server.  A Resource Server never consumes an Identity Continuation
      Assertion, no token it consumes carries an
      identity_continuation_handle, and its authorization decisions
      never depend on one.  A workload co-located with a Resource Server
      MAY receive an identity_continuation_handle as control-plane
      context accompanying a request (Section 4.6).

   ID-JAG:  An Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant
      [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]: the onward
      authorization grant the IdP issues for a target RAS.

   Identity Continuation Assertion:  A short-lived, sender-constrained
      JWT, defined by this document, issued by a Chain Authority and
      presented to the IdP as the subject_token of a Token Exchange
      request in order to obtain an onward authorization grant.  Its
      token type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-
      continuation.

   Chain Authority:  The party trusted by the Continuation Authorization
      Server to assert chain evidence for a given tenant and to issue
      Identity Continuation Assertions.  It is a role, not a new
      deployed component: commonly an existing party the IdP already
      trusts (a Resource Authorization Server, a transaction-token
      service, or a domain gateway), though a deployment MAY run it as a
      dedicated service.  It is never the authority for resolving the
      target audience's user subject identifier.

   Current actor (presenting actor):  The workload that presents the
      Identity Continuation Assertion and the Token Exchange request to
      the IdP.  It is identified by the act claim and authenticated by
      the actor_token.

   Tenant:  The administrative boundary (for example, an enterprise
      customer of the IdP) within which a chain is established and trust
      in a Chain Authority is configured.  How a tenant is determined is
      deployment-defined and otherwise out of scope for this document.

   Trust domain:  The administrative and authentication boundary within
      which a party, such as a Chain Authority or a workload identity
      issuer, can directly authenticate workloads and vouch for their
      identities (for example, one SaaS provider's production
      environment).  It is comparable to the trust-domain concept of the
      WIMSE architecture [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch]; how a trust domain is
      identified is deployment-defined.

   Continuation Handle (identity_continuation_handle):  An opaque,
      unguessable, IdP-generated reference to one hop of a delegation
      chain; see Section 5.

   Hop:  One continuation point in a chain: the root delegation context,
      or a successful continuation recorded with an immutable reference
      to its parent hop.  A chain's hops form a tree, and a hop's
      lineage is the path from that hop to the root.

   Root-chain envelope:  The state the IdP records when it establishes a
      chain and evaluates every continuation against.  It is derived
      from the user's authentication and consent and from tenant policy,
      and comprises:

      *  the authenticated user;

      *  the authentication context (auth_time, acr, amr);

      *  the authorization basis for onward targets;

      *  the continuation authorization: the actors or trust domains
         permitted to continue the chain, and the basis on which that
         permission was established (Section 7.2);

      *  any maximum actor-chain depth set by policy;

      *  the chain's governing authorization (Section 6); and

      *  the chain's expiry.

      The authorization basis is the ceiling on onward targets captured
      at establishment from the user's consent and tenant policy; the
      IdP evaluates every continuation against it at the time of the
      request.  The IdP records that ceiling (for example, a policy
      version or an evaluated maximal grant), and later changes MAY
      narrow, but MUST NOT broaden, what a continuation can obtain.  A
      deployment whose onward targets are known at establishment may
      record the basis as explicit target entries, each binding one
      audience and resource to the scopes, and optionally the
      authorization details [RFC9396], that may be requested for that
      target; dynamic fan-out, in which onward targets are not
      enumerable at establishment, needs no enumeration.  See Section 9
      and Section 6.

   Audience-local (pairwise) subject:  The subject identifier under
      which a particular RAS names the user.  Distinct Resource
      Authorization Servers MAY name the same user with different
      identifiers; only the IdP holds the map between them.

3.  When to Use This Profile Versus Offline Attenuation

   The deciding question is subject resolution, not cost.

   *  If the next audience requires a _different_ subject identifier
      (pairwise subjects, where only the IdP holds the map), only the
      IdP can mint that hop: an Identity Continuation Assertion to the
      IdP is used, because offline tokens cannot produce the next
      audience's sub.

   *  If the _same_ subject identifier, or a key-based workload
      identity, suffices down a local fan-out, there is no reason to
      round-trip the IdP: an offline attenuated delegation token (for
      example, [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization]) is used instead,
      and the IdP is reserved for the boundary hops.

   In the canonical flow both appear: an offline attenuated stack inside
   TravelSaaS as it fans out to sub-agents, and an Identity Continuation
   Assertion when TravelSaaS crosses to BookingRAS under a new subject.

4.  The Identity Continuation Assertion

4.1.  Token Type and Media Type

   The Identity Continuation Assertion is identified as follows:

   Name:        Identity Continuation Assertion
   Token type:  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-continuation
   JOSE typ:    oauth-identity-continuation+jwt

   The assertion is a JWT [RFC7519].  Its JSON Object Signing and
   Encryption (JOSE) header typ value oauth-identity-continuation+jwt
   corresponds to the media type application/oauth-identity-
   continuation+jwt (Section 13).  The IdP MUST verify the typ header to
   ensure that the JWT is processed as an Identity Continuation
   Assertion and is not confused with any other JWT, as recommended by
   [RFC8725].

4.2.  Claims

   The following is a non-normative example of the Identity Continuation
   Assertion claim set:

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.travel.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "travel-service"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-current-actor-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000500,
     "exp": 1710000800,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-01"
   }

   The claims have the following meanings and requirements:

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The Chain Authority that issued the assertion.  The
      IdP MUST verify that this issuer is a trusted Chain Authority for
      this tenant and that the assertion was signed with a key
      authorized for that issuer.

   aud:  REQUIRED.  It MUST be a single string containing the issuer
      identifier of the Continuation Authorization Server being asked to
      issue the onward grant.  The IdP MUST validate aud using exact
      string matching against its issuer identifier.  A token endpoint
      URL that differs from the issuer identifier MUST NOT be used as
      this claim's value.

   identity_continuation_handle:  REQUIRED.  The continuation handle
      being continued.  It binds the request to a specific hop of a
      chain: the IdP resolves the chain, the parent hop, the user, and
      the audience-local subject from it.  See Section 5.

   act:  REQUIRED.  The current actor presenting the Token Exchange
      request, encoded as a single-level act claim per [RFC8693].  The
      act object contains a REQUIRED iss and a REQUIRED sub, both non-
      empty strings.  Additional members MAY carry further identity
      attributes of the actor; a recipient MUST ignore members it does
      not understand, and the members exp, nbf, aud, scope, cnf, and
      nested act MUST NOT be present.  Additional members are non-
      authoritative: the IdP MUST NOT use them for identity comparison,
      continuation authorization, lineage construction, or grant
      issuance.  The IdP MUST reject an assertion whose act does not
      conform to this schema.  The assertion names no other actor: all
      lineage is constructed by the IdP (Section 10), and nested act
      values are reserved for a future extension (Appendix E).

      Where an offline attenuated stack delegated to the current actor,
      the Chain Authority MAY retain audit evidence for that offline
      segment separately from the assertion, for example per-hop issuer
      receipts [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] or actor-signed hop
      proofs [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs]; such evidence SHOULD
      remain in the control plane (Section 12).

   cnf:  REQUIRED.  A confirmation claim [RFC7800] that binds the
      assertion to the key of the actor that will present it to the IdP.
      cnf MUST contain exactly one confirmation method: jkt, the JWK
      SHA-256 thumbprint [RFC7638] of the key the actor proves
      possession of using Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)
      [RFC9449].  The Chain Authority binds the assertion to the key at
      issuance, and the presenting actor demonstrates live possession of
      that key on the Token Exchange request.  The proof-of-possession
      model is specified in Section 7.4.

   iat, exp:  REQUIRED.  The assertion lifetime MUST be short. exp MUST
      be after iat, and exp - iat MUST be no more than 300 seconds; see
      Section 9.  The bound accommodates issuance-to-presentation
      latency while keeping the replay-state retention window small.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier used by the IdP for replay
      detection.  The value MUST be unique per issuer (iss) within the
      assertion validity window.

   The assertion MUST NOT contain a top-level sub, auth_time, acr, or
   amr claim.  The IdP obtains the user and root authentication context
   from the root-chain envelope indexed by identity_continuation_handle,
   and identifies the current workload from the act claim and the
   actor_token; repeating those values in the assertion would only
   create competing sources of identity without adding authority.

   The assertion MAY carry other top-level claims.  A recipient MUST
   ignore claims it does not understand, and additional claims are non-
   authoritative: the IdP MUST NOT use them in validation, continuation
   authorization, or grant issuance.

4.3.  Claims That Are Deliberately Excluded

   The following Token Exchange request values MUST NOT be conveyed by
   the Identity Continuation Assertion:

   audience (target)
   resource
   scope
   authorization_details
   requested_token_type

   These stay in the Token Exchange request (Section 7) so that direct
   and chained calls have an identical shape: the requested values
   always come from the request, never from the assertion.  The
   assertion's aud claim is different: it identifies the Continuation
   Authorization Server that consumes the assertion, not the requested
   target audience.

4.4.  Assertion Issuance and Key Binding

   A presenting actor obtains an Identity Continuation Assertion from
   the Chain Authority for a given identity_continuation_handle
   (Section 8, step 7).  The Chain Authority:

   *  MUST bind the assertion to the requesting actor's key via cnf
      (Section 4.2), and MUST do so only after establishing that the
      requesting actor controls that key and is the actor recorded in
      the act claim; and

   *  SHOULD be in the requesting actor's trust domain.  It can satisfy
      these requirements only for actors it can directly authenticate,
      so each trust domain normally operates or designates its own Chain
      Authority.  Issuing assertions for actors in another trust domain
      is NOT RECOMMENDED unless the Chain Authority has an authenticated
      relationship with those actors and their keys.

   How the actor authenticates to the Chain Authority and proves control
   of its key is deployment-specific; it is typically the workload's
   existing mutually authenticated credential.  The issuance interaction
   itself (endpoint, request parameters, and responses) is out of scope
   for this document; a standard issuance profile is an open item
   (Appendix E).  An assertion whose cnf is not bound to the requesting
   actor's key is not presentable, because the IdP requires live proof
   of possession of the confirmed key (Section 7.4).

4.5.  Chain-Context Provenance

   The mechanism used to transport chain context between workloads is
   deployment-specific, but its security properties are not.  A Chain
   Authority MUST issue an Identity Continuation Assertion only after
   establishing all of the following:

   1.  the identity_continuation_handle was received through an
       authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected channel from
       a participant in the chain (its root actor, a continuer, or a
       workload conveying context on their behalf), or was obtained from
       equivalent authenticated state held by the Chain Authority;

   2.  the requesting actor is authorized under Chain Authority policy
       to continue the chain;

   3.  the requesting actor controls the key placed in cnf; and

   4.  the actor placed in act is the authenticated requesting actor
       (Section 4.2), and, where an offline attenuated stack delegated
       to that actor, the Chain Authority has validated the delegation
       artifact's integrity and delegation rules (for example, an actor-
       signed hop-proof chain [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs])
       before issuing.

   Possession of identity_continuation_handle alone is insufficient to
   satisfy these requirements, and values received as propagated
   context, including actor history or requested authority, MUST NOT
   override the root-chain envelope.  The transport MAY carry
   deployment-specific hints, but the assertion's authoritative content
   is only the claims defined in Section 4.2, and the IdP applies its
   own root-chain and current-actor policy at the exchange.

4.6.  An HTTP Binding for Chain Context

   Interoperability between independently developed participants
   benefits from at least one common representation for conveying
   identity_continuation_handle with a request.  This document defines
   an OPTIONAL HTTP binding that participants SHOULD support when they
   convey chain context over HTTP: the Identity-Continuation-Handle
   request header field [RFC9110], whose field value is the
   identity_continuation_handle.  The syntax of
   identity_continuation_handle (Section 5, rule 2) confines it to
   characters valid in an HTTP field value.

   Identity-Continuation-Handle: Yw5pD8kFq3RtN6vBx1LzHe

   A sender MUST transmit this field only over a channel that satisfies
   Section 4.5 (authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected;
   for example, mutual TLS between the workloads).  A receiver MUST
   treat the value per Section 4.5: it identifies a chain but conveys no
   authority.  Participants SHOULD exclude the field value from logs.
   The chain participant to which the field is addressed consumes it; a
   receiver MUST NOT forward the field to a party that is not a
   participant in the chain.  Transparent intermediaries that convey the
   request without processing the field (proxies, load balancers,
   service meshes) are not participants and do not consume it; the
   participant to which the request is addressed remains responsible for
   consuming it and not forwarding it.

   The field is a singleton: a sender MUST NOT generate more than one
   Identity-Continuation-Handle field in a message, and a receiver MUST
   reject a message containing multiple instances, or a list-valued
   instance, as malformed, rather than proceed as though no chain
   context were present.

   Actor lineage and other chain context are conveyed by deployment-
   specific means and are validated by the Chain Authority before
   issuance (Section 4.5).  Within a trust domain,
   identity_continuation_handle typically travels inside existing
   context propagation such as a Transaction Token
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].  This binding serves the inter-
   domain hop, which a Transaction Token cannot cross under its own
   audience rules (Appendix A.2).

5.  Continuation Handles (identity_continuation_handle)

   An identity_continuation_handle is an opaque, unguessable, IdP-
   generated reference to one hop of a delegation chain.  The IdP
   creates the root hop when it establishes a chain (Section 7.2) and a
   child hop for each successful continuation; each child holds an
   immutable reference to the hop whose handle was presented.

   A chain is therefore a tree.  Sibling continuations that present the
   same handle, including concurrently, create sibling hops, and a hop's
   lineage is the path from that hop to the root, independent of every
   other branch.  From the presented handle the IdP resolves the chain,
   the parent hop, and the correct per-audience subject.

   identity_continuation_handle is a non-bearer reference, closer in
   spirit to a grant identifier than to a token: it conveys no
   authority, and it is never dereferenced into or presented in place of
   a token.  Authority at each hop comes from the sender-constrained
   assertion and the root-chain envelope.  This follows the pattern of
   the OpenID Connect sid claim [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout] and the txn
   claim [RFC8417]: opaque, issuer-generated identifiers that index
   server-side state.  It differs in sensitivity as well as scope: a
   handle is a non-authorizing reference to grant state, not a passive
   correlation identifier, and it is confined to the control plane:
   unlike sid, which a Resource Server can see in an ID Token,
   identity_continuation_handle MUST NOT appear in any token a Resource
   Server consumes (rule 4; see also Section 12).

   The following rules apply:

   1.  The IdP MUST establish a chain for every direct ID-JAG issuance
       under a continuation-capable governing authorization
       (Section 7.2), and MUST return a fresh continuation handle as a
       Token Exchange _response_ parameter (Section 7.6) for the root
       hop and for each continuation hop.  Handle values MUST NOT be
       reused across hops.

   2.  identity_continuation_handle MUST contain at least 128 bits of
       entropy, MUST NOT contain user-identifying information, and MUST
       consist of 22 to 256 characters drawn from the base64url alphabet
       (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, -, _), making it safe for use in HTTP field
       values (Section 4.6).  Note that URLs are a poor carrier for
       handles, being prone to logging and referrer exposure.

   3.  identity_continuation_handle lives in the control plane only:
       Token Exchange responses, propagated chain context, and Identity
       Continuation Assertions.

   4.  identity_continuation_handle MUST NOT appear in any ID-JAG or
       access token that a Resource Server consumes.  This preserves the
       audience-local subject property: a Resource Server sees only its
       own subject, audience, scope, and actor chain, and nothing that
       correlates the user across SaaS boundaries from those tokens
       (actor lineage and timing remain correlation channels;
       Section 12).

   5.  End-to-end audit correlation is performed at the IdP, which holds
       the hop graph for every chain.  Per-Resource-Server logs use that
       server's own pairwise subject.

   6.  Resource Authorization Servers, Resource Servers, and Chain
       Authorities MUST NOT modify identity_continuation_handle.

   7.  identity_continuation_handle alone is not proof of authorization
       and MUST NOT be treated as a bearer credential.  The IdP MUST use
       it only as a lookup handle for the hop, its chain state, subject
       resolution, and policy evaluation.

   8.  A hop's parent reference is immutable.  The IdP MUST derive
       lineage solely by walking parent references from the presented
       hop to the root, and MUST NOT maintain or extend a single chain-
       wide actor history: concurrent sibling continuations are
       independent branches.

   In deployments that already maintain a delegation or mission
   identifier, the IdP MAY derive hop handles from that identifier
   internally (for example, by a keyed one-way derivation), provided
   every value remains distinct per hop, unguessable, and unlinkable,
   per rules 1, 2, and 8.

5.1.  Handle Freshness and Unlinkability

   Handles are hop-specific by construction: no two hops share a value
   (rule 1), so audiences and branches do not acquire a shared
   identifier for the delegation.  A given handle is still observed by
   every participant on its conveyance path (the party that received it,
   workloads that propagate it, the Chain Authority, and the IdP), so
   unlinkability holds across hops, not within a path, and actor lineage
   and timing remain correlation channels (Section 12).  Handles of a
   revoked chain, or of a hop subtree the IdP has revoked (Section 6),
   fail validation (Section 9, rule 7) at the next exchange.

6.  Chain Lifetime and Revocation

   A chain is continuable only while the IdP considers it active.
   Because every cross-boundary hop is an exchange at the IdP
   (Section 8), the IdP is in the loop at each hop and can stop a chain
   at any point.

   Every chain has a continuation-capable governing authorization
   (Section 7.2), resolved at establishment from the root subject token:
   the OAuth authorization grant behind a refresh token, or the IdP
   session resolved from an ID Token's sid (Section 7.2).  The binding
   is to the server-side record, not to a token value: refresh-token
   rotation does not affect a grant-governed chain, while revocation or
   expiry of the grant ends every chain rooted in it, and termination of
   a governing session ends every chain rooted in that session.  A
   session-governed chain's lifetime MUST NOT exceed the session's, so
   only grant-governed chains outlive logout.  The IdP MUST bound the
   continuation lifetime of a chain by the lifetime of its governing
   authorization, and MUST reject a continuation of an expired chain
   (Section 9).  The governing authorization is distinct from the root
   authentication context: continuing a chain MUST NOT extend that
   context, and auth_time, acr, and amr are fixed at root issuance and
   inherited unchanged by onward grants (Section 11.3).

   The IdP MUST be able to revoke a chain, and MUST stop honoring
   continuation for a revoked chain.  Ending the governing authorization
   revokes every chain rooted in it: revocation of the governing grant
   does so (for example, through token revocation [RFC7009] or a grant
   management interface), as does termination of the user's session
   where the session governs, or withdrawal of the underlying policy.
   An IdP MAY additionally revoke an individual hop's subtree, stopping
   continuation along one branch while the rest of the chain remains
   continuable.

   Because each onward grant requires a fresh exchange at the IdP,
   revocation takes effect at the next hop, with no need to reach or
   invalidate chain evidence already held by intermediate services.
   This is a deliberate difference from an offline attenuated delegation
   token, where a minted child token remains usable for its lifetime
   without contacting an authority.  Access tokens already issued by a
   Resource Authorization Server remain valid for their own lifetimes
   and are governed by that server's revocation mechanisms.

   Revocation is a control-plane capability, but the delegation belongs
   to the user.  IdPs are encouraged to make active chains visible and
   revocable through user- and administrator-facing management
   interfaces, presenting the root context, the chain's hop graph and
   actor lineage, the targets granted so far, and the chain's expiry.
   Grant Management for OAuth 2.0 [GRANT-MGMT] provides a comparable
   management model for standing grants.

7.  Token Exchange Profile

   An Identity Continuation Assertion is used as the subject_token of an
   OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange request [RFC8693].  A direct request and a
   chained request have the same shape: the client changes only
   subject_token and subject_token_type.  Chain establishment is the
   IdP's act, not a request parameter (Section 7.2).

7.1.  Direct ID-JAG Request

   A direct request, in which the subject token is a normal subject
   token such as an ID Token or refresh token:

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<id_token | refresh_token>
   subject_token_type=<normal-subject-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained-current-actor-credential>
   actor_token_type=<actor-token-type>

   On a direct request, actor_token is OPTIONAL (Section 7.2).

7.2.  Establishing a Chain

   A chain is established by the IdP, not requested by the client: the
   party performing the root exchange cannot generally know whether
   downstream services will need to continue the delegation, and
   requiring it to predict would foreclose continuation for the entire
   downstream graph.  The IdP MUST establish a chain for each direct
   exchange in which it issues an ID-JAG under a continuation-capable
   governing authorization (below), and MUST return the root hop's
   handle (Section 7.6); chain state MAY be materialized lazily, on
   first continuation, and the root handle remains resolvable to its
   chain regardless (Section 9, rule 7).  Where the governing
   authorization does not permit continuation, no chain is established
   and no handle is returned; its absence tells the client that the
   delegation is not continuable.  Tenant enablement (Section 7.7) is a
   capability signal and authorizes nothing.

   The chain's properties are not negotiated.  The governing
   authorization is resolved from the root subject token, and the IdP
   MUST NOT establish a chain from a subject token it cannot resolve to
   one.  Two rooting paths are defined:

   *  a refresh token resolves to the OAuth authorization grant it
      belongs to, and the chain is bound to that grant; only grant-
      governed chains may outlive the establishing session (Section 6);
      and

   *  an ID Token carrying a sid claim [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout] that
      the IdP resolves to an active session it established for this user
      and client binds the chain to that session.

   A chain is established only where that governing authorization is
   continuation-capable: its consent and policy explicitly permit
   continuation and establish the authorization basis, the continuation
   authorization (the permitted actors or trust domains), the maximum
   actor-chain depth where bounded, and the chain's lifetime and
   revocation behavior, all of which are recorded in the root-chain
   envelope.  These always come from server-side consent and policy
   state, never from token claims.  The IdP consumes sid solely to
   resolve the session; it MUST NOT appear in assertions or conveyed
   chain context (Section 12).  An unused chain is inert state: its
   establishment exercises no authority beyond what the continuation-
   capable governing authorization already granted.

   When establishing a chain, the IdP MUST determine the root actor: the
   authenticated OAuth client of the direct request, identified through
   the authoritative client-to-actor mapping of Section 7.5.  An
   actor_token is OPTIONAL on a direct request.  If present, it MUST be
   of a type the IdP accepts for continuation and currently valid, MUST
   designate the IdP where its type defines an audience or applicability
   restriction, MUST be sender-constrained to a key whose possession the
   request proves (for example, the request's DPoP proof key), and MUST
   identify the same entity as the authenticated client.  The IdP MUST
   record the root actor in the root hop only after this validation; the
   root actor begins every branch's lineage (Section 10).

   The response returns the root hop's handle in
   identity_continuation_handle and MAY include the chain's expiry in
   identity_continuation_exp (Section 7.6).

   Like the continuation exchange (Section 9), root establishment is at-
   least-once: a retry after a lost response MAY establish a second
   chain.  Both chains are bounded by the same consent and policy, and
   an unused chain expires.

7.3.  Chained ID-JAG Request

   A chained request, in which the subject token is an Identity
   Continuation Assertion:

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained-current-actor-credential>
   actor_token_type=<actor-token-type>

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.

   The requested audience, resource, scope, requested_token_type, and
   any authorization_details are supplied by the Token Exchange request
   and never by the assertion.  Following
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant], audience identifies
   the target Resource Authorization Server and resource ([RFC8693],
   originally defined in [RFC8707]) identifies the protected resource.

   The request MAY also include authorization_details [RFC9396], which
   the ID-JAG profile supports in both the exchange and the issued
   grant; the authorization-basis check (Section 9, rule 14) applies to
   it as to scope.  Client authentication is required on every exchange
   (Section 7.5) and is omitted from the example bodies for brevity.

7.4.  Sender-Constrained Presentation

   The Identity Continuation Assertion is sender-constrained: it is
   bound by cnf to the key of the actor that presents it (Section 4.2).
   This profile uses proof of possession aligned with the direct ID-JAG
   request [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]:

   *  The presenting actor MUST demonstrate live possession of the
      confirmed key by including a DPoP proof JWT [RFC9449] computed
      with that key, carried in the DPoP HTTP header (and therefore not
      in the request body shown above).  The IdP MUST verify that the
      DPoP proof key thumbprint equals the assertion's cnf.jkt, and MUST
      reject a request that does not prove possession of the confirmed
      key.

   *  The Token Exchange request MUST include an actor_token, which
      authenticates the workload identity of the current actor, the
      actor named in the assertion's act claim.  The actor_token MUST
      itself be sender-constrained to the same key confirmed by the
      assertion's cnf.  For a JWT actor token, the IdP MUST verify a
      cnf.jkt value that matches both the assertion and the live proof.
      For an opaque actor token, the IdP MUST obtain the equivalent
      confirmation value from authoritative token metadata, such as a
      token introspection response [RFC7662].  A bearer actor token MUST
      NOT be accepted.  The actor_token MUST be of a type the IdP
      accepts for continuation and MUST be currently valid under that
      type's rules.  Where its type defines an audience or equivalent
      applicability restriction, that restriction MUST designate the
      IdP: a token that a trusted issuer minted for another service is
      not a valid actor_token.  These checks bind the authenticated
      workload identity, the assertion, and the demonstrated key to one
      actor.

   Actor identity comparison is exact: two actor identities denote the
   same entity only if their issuer and subject identifiers are octet-
   for-octet equal.  The IdP MUST apply this comparison when matching
   the actor_token to the act claim and to the authenticated client
   (Section 7.5).  Comparison occurs within the tenant context already
   established for the exchange (Section 9, rule 10); identities from
   different tenants are never compared equal.

   The onward ID-JAG the IdP issues is itself sender-constrained to the
   same key through its own cnf, using the DPoP-based binding the ID-JAG
   profile defines (Section 10).  This version deliberately standardizes
   a single mandatory-to-implement confirmation method for
   interoperability.  A mutual-TLS-bound variant [RFC8705] is not
   specified: the ID-JAG profile currently defines only DPoP-based
   binding, and a different confirmation method in the onward grant
   would break the property that the target Resource Authorization
   Server processes an unchanged ID-JAG.  The presenting actor proves
   possession of the key again when it exchanges the ID-JAG at the
   target Resource Authorization Server, exactly as for a directly
   issued ID-JAG [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].

   The key binding is established per assertion at issuance.  A workload
   that rotates its key obtains its next assertion, and an actor token,
   bound to the new key; rotation takes effect at the next issuance and
   requires no coordination with the IdP.

7.5.  Client Identity and Authentication

   The party presenting a continuation exchange is an OAuth client of
   the IdP, and the current actor is that client:

   *  The requester MUST authenticate as an OAuth client.  As with the
      direct ID-JAG exchange, this profile is intended for confidential
      clients.

   *  The IdP MUST verify that the authenticated client and the current
      actor are the same entity, comparing the client's actor identity
      (its iss and sub pair) with the actor_token and the act claim
      using the exact comparison of Section 7.4.  The IdP learns the
      client's actor identity from an authoritative mapping, typically
      recorded in the client registration or resolvable from a shared
      client identifier namespace such as Client ID Metadata Documents.

   *  A deployment MAY use a single sender-constrained JWT as both the
      client assertion and the actor_token where the requirements of
      both roles coincide: [RFC7523] requires such a JWT's sub to be the
      workload's client_id, and the IdP MUST be configured to accept the
      workload identity issuer as an authorized issuer of client
      assertions for that client.  Otherwise the client authenticates
      with its registered method and additionally presents the
      actor_token.

   The client_id of the onward ID-JAG is the identifier under which the
   current actor is registered for the target Resource Authorization
   Server.  The ID-JAG profile
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] defines how the IdP
   knows that identifier (an out-of-band per-RAS mapping, or a shared
   namespace such as Client ID Metadata Documents) and requires the
   grant's client_id to match the client that redeems it.  A continuing
   workload therefore needs a client registration, or a resolvable
   client identity, at each target it will reach; in this document's
   examples the workload identifier doubles as that client identifier.

7.6.  The identity_continuation_handle Response Parameter

   When the IdP establishes a chain (Section 7.2) or continues one, it
   MUST return a fresh continuation handle for the newly created hop as
   the identity_continuation_handle top-level member of the Token
   Exchange response (alongside access_token, issued_token_type, and so
   forth).  An authorized continuer obtains the next Identity
   Continuation Assertion for that hop from its Chain Authority
   (Section 4.4).  Each hop's handle is distinct and its parent
   reference is immutable (Section 5, rules 1 and 8).
   identity_continuation_handle MUST NOT be carried as a claim inside
   the issued ID-JAG (Section 5, rule 4).

   identity_continuation_handle stays in the control plane: it is
   delivered to the party that performed the Token Exchange and conveyed
   from there to the workload that continues the chain, for example
   accompanying the request into the next service or held by a Chain
   Authority in the originating trust domain.  Keeping it out of the ID-
   JAG prevents a cross-hop correlation handle from reaching every
   audience that consumes a token (Section 12).  How it is conveyed is
   deployment-specific, but the provenance and integrity requirements of
   Section 4.5 apply.

   The IdP MAY also include identity_continuation_exp, a JSON number
   containing a NumericDate [RFC7519] after which the chain ceases to be
   eligible for continuation (Section 6), letting a continuing party
   anticipate expiry rather than discover it by failure.
   identity_continuation_exp is advisory; the authoritative lifetime is
   the chain state held by the IdP, which can revoke the chain before
   that time.

   A non-normative response example is:

   {
     "access_token": "<id-jag>",
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "expires_in": 300,
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",
     "identity_continuation_exp": 1710086400
   }

7.7.  Authorization Server Metadata

   An IdP that supports this profile SHOULD signal it in its
   authorization server metadata [RFC8414] with the following parameter:

   identity_continuation_supported:  OPTIONAL.  Boolean value indicating
      support for the urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-
      continuation subject token type and the
      identity_continuation_handle and identity_continuation_exp Token
      Exchange response parameters.  Default false.

   Absent this signal, a client learns of support out of band or by
   attempting an exchange.

8.  Same-IdP Core Flow

   The canonical same-IdP SaaS-to-SaaS flow proceeds as follows.  Steps
   6 through 12 repeat for each additional cross-boundary hop (for
   example, TravelRAS to BookingRAS).

   1.   ExpenseApp authenticates the user at the IdP.

   2.   ExpenseApp requests an ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS via Token Exchange.

   3.   The IdP issues an ID-JAG (iss=IdP, aud=ExpenseRAS, sub=the
        user's ExpenseRAS subject, with scope and cnf), establishes a
        chain (Section 7.2), and returns the root hop's continuation
        handle as the identity_continuation_handle response parameter.
        The IdP records the root-chain envelope: the user, the
        authentication context (auth_time/acr/amr), the authorization
        basis, the continuation authorization (here, designated
        TravelSaaS and BookingSaaS workloads), any maximum actor-chain
        depth, the governing authorization, the expiry, and the root hop
        with its authenticated actor (expense-app).
        identity_continuation_handle is not a claim inside the
        ExpenseRAS ID-JAG.

   4.   ExpenseApp exchanges the ID-JAG at ExpenseRAS for an access
        token (AT1) and invokes ExpenseSaaS, conveying
        identity_continuation_handle to ExpenseSaaS over an
        authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected control-
        plane channel associated with the request.
        identity_continuation_handle is not carried in the ID-JAG or
        AT1.

   5.   ExpenseService, the ExpenseSaaS workload handling the request,
        propagates chain context (identity_continuation_handle, with
        deployment audit context such as prior-actor information, which
        cannot override the envelope; Section 4.5) to TravelService over
        an authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected channel.
        No audience-local subject is propagated across the SaaS boundary
        by default; local fan-out inside a domain MAY use an offline
        attenuated stack.

   6.   TravelService needs to call TravelAPI behind TravelRAS.

   7.   TravelService obtains an Identity Continuation Assertion from
        the Chain Authority for that identity_continuation_handle.

   8.   TravelService presents the assertion to the IdP as the
        subject_token and requests an id-jag for audience=TravelRAS,
        resource=TravelAPI, and scope=trips.read.

   9.   The IdP validates the assertion, root-chain state, actor policy,
        the requested audience, resource, and scope, and the sender
        constraint.

   10.  The IdP resolves the user's subject identifier for TravelRAS.

   11.  The IdP records the continuation as a new hop whose parent is
        the presented handle, and issues a new ID-JAG (iss=IdP,
        aud=TravelRAS, sub=the same user's TravelRAS subject, an act
        chain constructed from the presented hop's lineage plus the
        newly authenticated current actor, and cnf), returning the new
        hop's fresh handle as the identity_continuation_handle response
        parameter for any further hop.  The TravelRAS ID-JAG carries no
        identity_continuation_handle claim.

   12.  TravelService exchanges the new ID-JAG at TravelRAS for an
        access token (AT2).  Steps 6 through 12 repeat for BookingRAS.

9.  IdP Validation for the Continuation Exchange

   Before issuing an onward ID-JAG, the IdP MUST reject the Token
   Exchange request unless all of the following hold:

   1.   the request contains exactly one each of grant_type,
        subject_token, subject_token_type, requested_token_type,
        actor_token, and actor_token_type; the grant_type is
        urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange, and the
        subject_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-
        continuation;

   2.   the request contains exactly one audience parameter and exactly
        one resource parameter;

   3.   the assertion is a JWT containing exactly one value for each
        required claim defined in Section 4.2; iss, aud,
        identity_continuation_handle, and jti are non-empty strings; act
        and cnf are JSON objects, cnf containing exactly one
        confirmation method (Section 4.2); iat and exp are JSON numbers
        representing NumericDate values; and the JOSE typ header value
        is oauth-identity-continuation+jwt;

   4.   the assertion signature validates using a key authorized for the
        assertion issuer, and the JOSE alg is an asymmetric signature
        algorithm on the IdP's configured allowlist (the none algorithm
        MUST be rejected; see Section 11.8);

   5.   the assertion aud exactly matches the IdP's issuer identifier;

   6.   the assertion iss is a trusted Chain Authority for this tenant;

   7.   identity_continuation_handle identifies a known, active hop of
        an unexpired, unrevoked chain, and the hop the continuation
        would create is within any actor-chain depth bound set by
        policy;

   8.   the assertion does not contain a top-level sub, auth_time, acr,
        or amr claim, nor an audience, resource, scope,
        authorization_details, or requested_token_type claim
        (Section 4.3);

   9.   the assertion's act claim is present, conforms to the schema of
        Section 4.2, and identifies the current actor;

   10.  the request and the current actor are bound together:

        *  the request is authenticated as an OAuth client that is the
           same entity as the current actor (Section 7.5);

        *  the actor_token was issued by a workload identity issuer the
           IdP trusts for the current actor's trust domain and tenant,
           is of an accepted type and currently valid, designates the
           IdP where its type defines an audience or applicability
           restriction, and authenticates the current actor;

        *  that actor is the actor named in act; and

        *  that actor is permitted by the chain's continuation
           authorization (Section 7.2) to continue from the presented
           hop;

   11.  the request proves possession of the key confirmed by cnf with a
        DPoP proof [RFC9449] matching cnf.jkt, and the actor_token is
        sender-constrained to that same key (Section 7.4);

   12.  jti has not been successfully consumed before for the assertion
        issuer;

   13.  iat and exp are valid NumericDate values, iat is not in the
        future beyond the IdP's permitted clock skew, exp is after iat,
        the assertion has not expired, and the assertion lifetime is no
        more than 300 seconds;

   14.  the requested audience and resource, every requested scope, and
        any requested authorization details [RFC9396] are authorized by
        the root-chain envelope's authorization basis, evaluated at the
        time of the request, and by IdP policy for the current actor;

   15.  the requested output token type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
        type:id-jag; and

   16.  the IdP can resolve, for the requested audience, both the
        audience-local subject and the current actor's client identifier
        (Section 7.5).

   After all other validation succeeds, the IdP MUST, as part of issuing
   the onward grant, atomically verify that the tuple (iss, jti) has not
   been consumed and record it as consumed.  At most one concurrent
   exchange using the same tuple may succeed, and the IdP MUST retain a
   successfully consumed tuple until at least the assertion's exp,
   allowing for the IdP's permitted clock skew.  A request that fails
   validation before grant issuance does not consume the tuple; how an
   implementation ensures this (for example, by releasing reservations
   on failure) is an implementation detail.

   These requirements imply per-chain state and, within the assertion
   validity window, strongly consistent replay state at the IdP; the
   300-second lifetime bounds the retention window.

   A client that does not receive the response to an exchange cannot
   retry with the same assertion: it obtains a fresh assertion from its
   Chain Authority and repeats the exchange, so Chain Authority issuance
   SHOULD be inexpensive relative to the exchange itself.  The retry
   path is at-least-once: a retry after a lost response mints a second,
   equivalent grant (short-lived, sender-constrained to the same key,
   and bounded by the same authorization basis) and a second hop, so it
   confers no additional authority.  Equivalent grants do not
   deduplicate the application operations they authorize; operation
   idempotency remains the application's concern.

   On success, the IdP records the continuation as a new hop whose
   immutable parent is the presented handle, resolves the audience-local
   subject for the requested RAS, and issues the onward ID-JAG with that
   sub.  The onward ID-JAG MUST NOT carry an
   identity_continuation_handle claim.

   If validation fails, the IdP MUST return an OAuth error response as
   defined by [RFC8693] and [RFC6749].  The IdP SHOULD use
   invalid_request for malformed or internally inconsistent requests,
   including unsupported parameter cardinality, the wrong
   subject_token_type, and an invalid or impermissible actor_token (rule
   10), which is an unacceptable token per [RFC8693].  A request that
   fails proof of possession (rule 11) SHOULD receive invalid_dpop_proof
   [RFC9449] where DPoP was used.  For requests outside the chain's
   authority, the IdP SHOULD use invalid_target for an audience and
   resource pair, invalid_scope for a scope, and
   invalid_authorization_details [RFC9396] for an authorization_details
   value, in each case one not permitted by the authorization basis or
   by IdP policy for the current actor (rule 14).

   A presented identity_continuation_handle that is unknown, expired,
   revoked, or otherwise not continuable (rule 7) makes the
   subject_token unacceptable, and the IdP returns invalid_request as
   Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693] requires.  Retrying with the same handle
   cannot succeed; continuing requires a handle on a live branch or a
   new root delegation, which typically requires the user.
   invalid_target, invalid_scope, and invalid_authorization_details
   signal instead that this particular request falls outside the chain's
   authority while the chain remains continuable, so an unattended
   client can abandon only the current request.  Because invalid_request
   also covers malformed requests, the error code alone does not
   distinguish a dead hop from a protocol error; a continuation-specific
   error code that would restore that distinction is an open item
   (Appendix E).

10.  Onward ID-JAG

   The following is a non-normative example of the onward ID-JAG issued
   by the IdP:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.travel.example/",
     "sub": "travel-local-subject",

     "client_id": "travel-service",
     "resource": "https://api.travel.example/",
     "scope": "trips.read",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "travel-service",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
         "sub": "expense-app"
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-current-actor-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000520,
     "exp": 1710000820,
     "jti": "idjag-travel-01"
   }

   The act chain in an onward ID-JAG is constructed by the IdP, not
   copied from the assertion: it is the newly authenticated current
   actor placed atop the presented hop's lineage, the actors the IdP
   itself authenticated along that hop's parent path (Section 5, rule
   8).  Sibling branches never contribute to one another's lineage, and
   any actor-chain depth bound set by policy applies to the resulting
   chain (Section 9, rule 7).  An actor identical to the lineage entry
   it would be placed atop appears once: a workload continuing from its
   own hop does not repeat in the chain.  Policy MAY limit the lineage
   depth exposed to a given audience, subject to audit requirements
   (Section 12).

   Nested lineage in an onward ID-JAG is therefore authenticated, not
   self-reported.  In this example the chain is travel-service
   (authenticated at this continuation) acting for a delegation rooted
   by expense-app (authenticated at root issuance).  Intermediate
   workloads that never performed an exchange, such as expense-service,
   appear in deployment audit records instead; actor receipts
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] and actor-signed hop proofs
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs] provide a verifiable form for
   such records.

   TravelRAS processes this as an ordinary ID-JAG per
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].  It does not need to
   understand the Identity Continuation Assertion, and it never sees
   identity_continuation_handle.  The client_id is the current actor's
   client identifier for the target Resource Authorization Server
   (Section 7.5); in this document's examples the workload identifier
   serves as both, so it matches the outer act.sub.

11.  Security Considerations

   This profile assumes TLS-protected channels between all parties and
   an IdP that correctly holds the per-audience subject map and the
   root-chain envelope.  The general OAuth security guidance of
   [RFC9700] applies.  The adversaries specifically considered are:

   *  a network or on-path attacker observing or replaying a Token
      Exchange request, addressed by sender-constraining the assertion
      and single-use consumption (Section 7.4, Section 11.2);

   *  a compromised or curious intermediate workload that holds
      propagated chain context and attempts to broaden authority,
      impersonate the user, or inflate the authentication context,
      bounded by the root-chain envelope and the actor binding
      (Section 11.3, the envelope enforcement below);

   *  a compromised Chain Authority, which can issue assertions only for
      chains it is trusted for, and whose assertions still require an
      authenticated, permitted actor (the Chain Authority trust section
      below);

   *  a malicious or curious Resource Server or Resource Authorization
      Server attempting to correlate the user across boundaries,
      addressed by keeping identity_continuation_handle out of every
      data-plane token (Section 12).

   The subsections below address each in turn.

11.1.  Sender Constraint and Proof of Possession

   The Identity Continuation Assertion MUST be sender-constrained via
   cnf [RFC7800] and MUST NOT be accepted as a bearer token.  The IdP
   verifies live proof of possession of the confirmed key and binds the
   assertion, that key, and the authenticated current actor together
   (Section 7.4).  Consequently a stolen assertion or stolen actor token
   cannot be replayed by a party that does not hold the confirmed
   private key, and the short single-use lifetime (Section 11.2) bounds
   the window even for the key holder.

11.2.  Short Lifetime and Replay

   The assertion lifetime MUST be no more than 300 seconds (Section 9).
   The IdP MUST atomically consume (iss, jti) with successful grant
   issuance and MUST permit at most one successful exchange for that
   tuple (Section 9).  Because the assertion is consumed only at the IdP
   and never by a Resource Server, its blast radius on replay is
   confined to the continuation exchange.

11.3.  Root Authentication Context

   The authoritative auth_time, acr, and amr values come only from the
   root-chain envelope recorded by the IdP.  They are not accepted from
   the Chain Authority.  Continuing a chain MUST NOT strengthen or
   refresh that context, and the IdP MUST copy it unchanged into an
   onward ID-JAG when the output profile requires those claims.

11.4.  Envelope Enforcement and Offline Attenuation

   The root-chain envelope is the authorization ceiling for a chain.
   The IdP enforces that the requested target and scopes are permitted
   by the envelope's authorization basis (Section 9, rule 14), which
   prevents a compromised intermediate actor from broadening the chain
   beyond what the root delegation and its governing consent and policy
   authorize.

   Where an offline attenuated delegation stack feeds an Identity
   Continuation Assertion, that stack's own specification provides and
   verifies monotonic attenuation, bounded delegation depth, and parent
   linkage along the offline segment (for example,
   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization], whose client-issued tokens
   are key-linked, monotonically downscoped, and depth-bounded).  The
   Chain Authority validates the segment before issuing (Section 4.5);
   the IdP itself enforces only the root-chain envelope described above.

   The assertion is deliberately target-agnostic (Section 4.3): within
   the envelope and IdP policy, the presenting actor chooses the target
   at exchange time, so a compromised permitted actor can select among
   all authorities the ceiling allows during the assertion's lifetime.
   This is a tradeoff for the uniform request shape; optional issuance-
   time narrowing constraints are an open item (Appendix E).

   A related risk for a multi-user intermediary is association error
   rather than broadening: a workload holding many valid handles that
   attaches the wrong handle to a request continues the wrong user's
   chain, within that chain's envelope.  Deployments MUST preserve the
   association between an inbound transaction and its handle
   (Section 4.5); standardizing a carrier for that association is an
   open item (Appendix E).

11.5.  Trust in the Chain Authority

   The IdP MUST accept assertions only from Chain Authorities it trusts
   for the relevant tenant (Section 9).  A compromised Chain Authority
   can issue assertions for chains it is trusted for; a continuation
   additionally requires an authenticated actor permitted by the chain's
   continuation authorization.  Deployments SHOULD scope Chain Authority
   trust as narrowly as practical and SHOULD monitor for anomalous
   continuation patterns.  Because the IdP enforces the root-chain
   envelope, a compromised Chain Authority cannot obtain a target or
   scope outside the chain's authorization basis.  Neither possession of
   an identity_continuation_handle nor trusted-Chain-Authority status
   alone authorizes continuation: the IdP independently requires that
   the authenticated current actor is permitted by IdP policy to
   continue the specific chain (Section 9, rule 10).
   identity_continuation_handle confidentiality is defense in depth, not
   an authorization factor.

   How the IdP establishes that trust (a Chain Authority's issuer
   identifier, its authorized signing keys, and its tenant scope) is out
   of band and deployment-specific, as for any issuer whose assertions
   an Authorization Server consumes [RFC7523].  It MAY be established
   statically or through a federation or trust-framework mechanism.
   Because the Identity Continuation Assertion carries no subject
   (Section 4.2), such a mechanism resolves the root subject and its
   owning authority from identity_continuation_handle and authorizes the
   Chain Authority against that resolved authority, rather than against
   a subject carried in the assertion.  The root-chain envelope
   continues to bound a trusted Chain Authority's authority regardless
   of how trust is established.

11.6.  Trust in Actor Token Issuers

   Validation rule 10 depends on the actor_token authenticating the
   current actor, which makes the issuer of that token a trust anchor of
   equal weight to the Chain Authority.  The IdP MUST accept actor
   tokens only from workload identity issuers it trusts for the actor's
   trust domain and tenant, scoped exactly as it scopes Chain Authority
   trust.  How that trust is established (the issuer, its keys, and its
   domain scope) is out of band and deployment-specific, whether through
   static configuration, a federation, or a workload identity system
   such as the WIMSE architecture [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch].  An actor token
   from an untrusted or out-of-scope issuer MUST be rejected regardless
   of the validity of the Identity Continuation Assertion that
   accompanies it.

11.7.  Actor Chain Integrity

   Actor lineage in an onward ID-JAG is constructed by the IdP from the
   actors it authenticated at the root exchange and at each
   continuation, so lineage is authenticated rather than self-reported
   (Section 10).  An assertion names only the current actor, and the IdP
   MUST reject an assertion whose act names anyone else (Section 9, rule
   9).  The IdP bases authorization decisions on the root-chain state,
   the authenticated current actor, and the requested audience,
   resource, and scope.  Actors of an offline attenuated segment appear
   in deployment audit records and the evidence layer
   ([I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts],
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs]) rather than in lineage;
   asserting a verified own-domain segment is reserved for a future
   extension (Appendix E).

11.8.  Token, Type, and Algorithm Confusion

   The IdP MUST verify the JOSE typ header value oauth-identity-
   continuation+jwt and MUST NOT process an Identity Continuation
   Assertion as any other kind of JWT, in accordance with [RFC8725].
   The IdP MUST reject an assertion whose JOSE alg header is none, and
   MUST restrict accepted algorithms to a configured allowlist of
   asymmetric signature algorithms.  Symmetric (MAC) algorithms MUST NOT
   be accepted.  The IdP MUST select the verification key from its trust
   configuration for the assertion iss.  A kid header parameter MAY
   select among verification keys already configured for that issuer.
   The IdP MUST NOT use an untrusted jku, x5u, embedded jwk, or other
   assertion-supplied key material to establish trust or retrieve a
   verification key.  General OAuth security guidance in [RFC9700]
   applies.

12.  Privacy Considerations

   An identity_continuation_handle correlates the control-plane
   participants on its conveyance path, and the rules in Section 5 keep
   it out of the data plane.  Because identity_continuation_handle MUST
   NOT appear in any ID-JAG or access token consumed by a Resource
   Server, and because each RAS sees only its own pairwise subject, a
   Resource Server or RAS that receives only its audience-local data-
   plane tokens cannot directly correlate the user across SaaS
   boundaries from those tokens.

   This property does not make the complete chain unlinkable.  The IdP
   necessarily correlates the chain, and workloads, Chain Authorities,
   or other control-plane participants that receive the same
   identity_continuation_handle can correlate their observations of that
   delegation.  In particular, the actor chain carried in each onward
   ID-JAG names the participating workloads, so colluding audiences can
   correlate a transaction from actor lineage and timing alone,
   regardless of how identity_continuation_handle is handled.
   Deployments requiring unlinkability across audiences must weigh the
   audit value of deep actor lineage against this correlation channel
   and MAY limit the nested lineage exposed to each audience, subject to
   their audit requirements.  Deployments SHOULD limit disclosure of
   identity_continuation_handle to participants that require it to
   continue or administer the chain.

   identity_continuation_handle MUST NOT contain user-identifying
   information and MUST carry at least 128 bits of entropy (Section 5,
   rule 2), so that an identity_continuation_handle neither reveals the
   user nor can be guessed.

   Continuation handles are hop-specific by construction (Section 5.1),
   so audiences and branches do not share a correlatable identifier.  A
   handle's conveyance path still observes its value, and a workload co-
   located with a Resource Server that receives chain context alongside
   a request (Section 4.6) is, for that data, a control-plane
   participant subject to the disclosure limits above.

13.  IANA Considerations

13.1.  OAuth URI Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following value in the "OAuth URI"
   registry established by [RFC6755] and used for token type identifiers
   by [RFC8693].

   URN:  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-continuation

   Common Name:  Token type URI for the Identity Continuation Assertion

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document, Section 4.1

13.2.  Media Type Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following media type in the "Media
   Types" registry, in the manner described in [RFC6838], corresponding
   to the JOSE typ header value oauth-identity-continuation+jwt.

   Type name:  application

   Subtype name:  oauth-identity-continuation+jwt

   Required parameters:  N/A

   Optional parameters:  N/A

   Encoding considerations:  binary; an Identity Continuation Assertion
      is a JWT [RFC7519], which is a series of base64url-encoded values
      (some of which may be empty) separated by period ('.') characters.

   Security considerations:  See Section 11 of this document.

   Interoperability considerations:  N/A

   Published specification:  This document, Section 4.1

   Applications that use this media type:  Applications using OAuth 2.0
      Token Exchange [RFC8693] to perform identity continuation across
      SaaS boundaries.

   Fragment identifier considerations:  N/A

   Additional information:
      Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
      Magic number(s): N/A
      File extension(s): N/A
      Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   Person & email address to contact for further information:  Karl
      McGuinness (public@karlmcguinness.com)

   Intended usage:  COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:  N/A

   Author:  Karl McGuinness

   Change controller:  IETF

13.3.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following claim in the "JSON Web
   Token Claims" registry established by [RFC7519].

   Claim Name:  identity_continuation_handle

   Claim Description:  Continuation Handle: an opaque, IdP-generated
      reference to one hop of a delegation chain, used to correlate a
      continuation to its chain and parent hop and to resolve the per-
      audience subject.

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This document, Section 5

13.4.  OAuth Parameters Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following values in the "OAuth
   Parameters" registry established by [RFC6749].  Both parameters are
   used in the OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange [RFC8693] response.

   Parameter name:  identity_continuation_handle

   Parameter usage location:  token response

   Change controller:  IETF

   Specification document(s):  This document, Section 7.6

   Parameter name:  identity_continuation_exp

   Parameter usage location:  token response

   Change controller:  IETF

   Specification document(s):  This document, Section 7.6

13.5.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following value in the "OAuth
   Authorization Server Metadata" registry established by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name:  identity_continuation_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating support for the
      Identity Continuation Assertion profile

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This document, Section 7.7

13.6.  HTTP Field Name Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following entry in the "Hypertext
   Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" defined by [RFC9110].

   Field Name:  Identity-Continuation-Handle

   Status:  provisional

   Reference:  This document, Section 4.6

   Note: The token type URI urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   referenced by this document is registered by
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] and is not registered
   here.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]
              Parecki, A., McGuinness, K., and B. Campbell, "Identity
              Assertion JWT Authorization Grant", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-
              grant-04, 21 May 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant-04>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7523>.

   [RFC7638]  Jones, M. and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Key (JWK)
              Thumbprint", RFC 7638, DOI 10.17487/RFC7638, September
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7638>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7662>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9110]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Semantics", STD 97, RFC 9110,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9110, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

14.2.  Informative References

   [GRANT-MGMT]
              OpenID Foundation, "Grant Management for OAuth 2.0",
              <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-grant-management.html>.

   [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile]
              Fletcher, G., Kasselman, P., and S. O'Dell, "Transaction
              Token Authorization Grant Profile for OAuth Identity and
              Authorization Chaining", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile-02, 6
              July 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile-02>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining]
              Schwenkschuster, A., Kasselman, P., Burgin, K., Jenkins,
              M. J., Campbell, B., and A. Parecki, "OAuth Identity and
              Authorization Chaining Across Domains", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-identity-chaining-17, 19
              July 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-oauth-identity-chaining-17>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
              Tulshibagwale, A., Fletcher, G., and P. Kasselman,
              "Transaction Tokens", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens-09, 6 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              transaction-tokens-09>.

   [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch]
              Salowey, J. A., Rosomakho, Y., and H. Tschofenig,
              "Workload Identity in a Multi System Environment (WIMSE)
              Architecture", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-wimse-arch-08, 6 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-wimse-
              arch-08>.

   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization]
              Ruochen, L., Wang, W., Liu, P. C., and T. Li, "OAuth 2.0
              Delegated Authorization", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-li-oauth-delegated-authorization-03, 24 July
              2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-li-
              oauth-delegated-authorization-03>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              proofs-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-proofs-00>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation
              Provenance", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-receipts-00>.

   [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout]
              OpenID Foundation, "OpenID Connect Front-Channel Logout
              1.0", <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
              frontchannel-1_0.html>.

   [RFC6755]  Campbell, B. and H. Tschofenig, "An IETF URN Sub-Namespace
              for OAuth", RFC 6755, DOI 10.17487/RFC6755, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6755>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7009]  Lodderstedt, T., Ed., Dronia, S., and M. Scurtescu, "OAuth
              2.0 Token Revocation", RFC 7009, DOI 10.17487/RFC7009,
              August 2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7009>.

   [RFC8417]  Hunt, P., Ed., Jones, M., Denniss, W., and M. Ansari,
              "Security Event Token (SET)", RFC 8417,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8417, July 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8417>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8705>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8707>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

Appendix A.  Design Rationale

   This appendix is non-normative.  It explains why the Identity
   Continuation Assertion is defined as a distinct Token Exchange
   subject token, rather than as a profile of an existing artifact, and
   why a cross-boundary hop cannot be served by propagating an existing
   token.  The recurring answer is per-boundary trust: each target
   trusts only the IdP to name the user and to scope authority over its
   resources, and where subjects are pairwise, only the IdP can even
   mint the next audience's subject (Section 1.1, Section 1.2).

A.1.  Why Not a Profile of ID-JAG

   An ID-JAG [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] and an
   Identity Continuation Assertion sit on opposite sides of the same
   Token Exchange and play opposite roles, so neither can be a profile
   of the other:

   *  An ID-JAG is the *output*: an authorization grant.  An Identity
      Continuation Assertion is the *input*: evidence presented as a
      subject_token.

   *  An ID-JAG's aud is the target Resource Authorization Server; an
      Identity Continuation Assertion's aud is the IdP.  The two are
      validated by different parties under different rules.

   *  An ID-JAG carries the user's resolved per-audience subject; an
      Identity Continuation Assertion does not carry a top-level sub
      (Section 4.2).  Profiling ID-JAG would force a sub to mean
      precisely what this profile forbids.

   *  identity_continuation_handle is excluded from every ID-JAG
      (Section 5, rule 4), yet it is the defining claim of an Identity
      Continuation Assertion.  "An ID-JAG carrying
      identity_continuation_handle" is self-contradictory.

   An Identity Continuation Assertion is also not a grant: presenting it
   to a Resource Authorization Server is meaningless.  It is the input
   that _produces_ a chained ID-JAG, not a kind of ID-JAG.

A.2.  Why Not a Profile of a Transaction Token

   Transaction Tokens [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens] are the
   closest neighbor (a short-lived signed JWT carrying delegation
   context, often issued by a service that could also act as the Chain
   Authority), but they sit at a different layer.  A Transaction Token
   is an _intra-domain_ object: its aud identifies a trust domain and it
   "MUST NOT be accepted outside" it, it is consumed by workloads inside
   the domain and re-minted as it propagates, and its sub is domain-
   local.  An Identity Continuation Assertion instead crosses to the
   IdP: its aud is the IdP, it is consumed only there, it is single-use,
   and it carries neither the target subject (the IdP resolves it) nor
   the request context (tctx, rctx, scope) a Transaction Token carries.
   It is therefore _derived from_ a Transaction Token at the boundary,
   not a profile of one.

A.3.  Why Not a Cross-Domain Propagation Token

   A natural question is whether the cross-boundary hop could be served
   by simply propagating a token across domains (an "inter-domain
   propagation token") consumed directly by the next domain with no IdP
   round-trip.  This profile does use offline propagation between hops
   wherever it is sound: that is the offline attenuated delegation
   layer, used when the subject does not change (Section 3).  It cannot
   serve the boundary where the subject changes.  Crossing that boundary
   re-subjects the user, and re-subjecting is a mint that only the IdP
   can perform, not an attenuation a propagation token can carry: a
   holder narrows authority it already has, it does not synthesize a
   subject it was never issued (Section 1.2).  Four consequences make
   this concrete:

   1.  *Subject resolution.* A propagation token is minted by the source
       side, which does not know and cannot compute the next audience's
       pairwise subject; only the IdP holds the map (Section 1.1).  Such
       a token can only carry the source domain's subject (wrong at the
       next domain, and a privacy leak), no subject (the user is
       unidentifiable), or a single global subject (which pairwise
       subjects preclude by design).  No amount of signing supplies data
       the issuer does not have.

   2.  *Trust direction.* The receiving domain trusts the IdP, not the
       source domain's issuer, to name the user and scope authority over
       its resources.  Direct propagation asks domain B to accept domain
       A's signature as authority over domain B.  Obtaining a grant from
       an authority that domain B already trusts is the model of
       [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining] (instantiated, for example, by
       the Transaction Token chaining profile
       [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile]).

   3.  *Revocation.* An offline propagation token is usable for its
       lifetime without contacting an authority, removing the ability to
       revoke mid-chain.  Because each Identity Continuation Assertion
       hop is an exchange at the IdP, revocation takes effect at the
       next hop (Section 6).

   4.  *Blast radius.* A token consumed directly by the next Resource
       Authorization Server is a broad, comparatively long-lived
       credential.  An Identity Continuation Assertion is narrowly
       scoped to aud = IdP, single-use, and sender-constrained
       (Section 7.4).  Its theft permits only a request for a grant
       within the root-chain envelope.

   Built honestly, a cross-domain propagation token collapses into this
   profile: to be usable at the next domain its subject must be re-
   resolved, and the only party that can do so is the IdP, so the token
   must be presented to the IdP, which is exactly an Identity
   Continuation Assertion.  Where all domains share a single global
   subject for the user, mutually trust each other's issuers (for
   example, a single SPIFFE-style trust domain), and accept the loss of
   mid-chain revocation, direct inter-domain propagation is appropriate;
   that is a different problem from the pairwise-subject, per-boundary-
   trust case this profile addresses.  Delegated Authorization
   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization] illustrates the boundary from
   the other side: its client-issued delegation tokens are forbidden to
   carry a subject at all, so that stack composes with this profile as
   the intra-domain layer of Section 3 and stops exactly where re-
   subjecting begins.

A.4.  Alternative Topology: Resolution at the Target

   This profile uses a push topology: the continuing workload carries
   continuation evidence to the IdP and then carries the resulting ID-
   JAG to the target Resource Authorization Server.  A pull topology was
   also evaluated.  In it, the workload presents its chain reference
   directly to the target Resource Authorization Server under a new
   grant type, together with proof of possession of its key, and that
   server resolves the reference at the IdP over a back channel in the
   style of token introspection [RFC7662]: the IdP performs the same
   envelope, actor-policy, and proof-of-possession checks, resolves its
   audience-local subject, and the Resource Authorization Server issues
   the access token directly.  A variant returns the ID-JAG itself in
   the back-channel response, so the Resource Authorization Server
   validates it with unchanged ID-JAG processing and only the delivery
   path differs.

   The pull topology has real advantages.  It removes the Chain
   Authority entirely, because the target's Authorization Server asks
   the IdP it already trusts and no additional assertion issuer exists.
   It removes one token round trip per hop.  It reduces the cross-
   boundary artifact to a single opaque reference, shrinking the
   deployment-specific transport surface.  And issuing a fresh reference
   per resolution mirrors the per-hop handles of the push topology
   (Section 5).

   Its cost falls on the many-party side of the ecosystem: every target
   Resource Authorization Server must implement the new grant type and
   the back-channel resolution call, and the reference becomes visible
   to each Resource Authorization Server it is presented to.  This
   document standardizes the push topology because it preserves the
   deployment property that drives ID-JAG adoption: the target Resource
   Authorization Server consumes an ordinary ID-JAG and requires no
   changes.  Push concentrates new behavior in the IdP and the Chain
   Authority, which are few; pull distributes it to Resource
   Authorization Servers, which are many.  The pull topology remains a
   candidate companion profile should the ecosystem prefer to move the
   integration cost to the target side; the two topologies consume the
   same root-chain envelope and differ only in who carries the evidence
   to the IdP.

A.5.  Why a Signed Assertion Rather Than a Bare Grant Type

   A dedicated grant type was also evaluated: the continuing workload
   would present identity_continuation_handle as a request parameter
   directly to the IdP, authenticated by its sender-constrained
   actor_token and live proof of possession, with no assertion JWT, no
   Chain Authority issuer trust, and no per-assertion replay state.
   Where the continuing domain has no offline delegation segment and no
   domain-local continuation policy, that reduction loses little: the
   IdP independently authenticates the actor and enforces the envelope
   either way.

   The signed assertion was retained for the work the Chain Authority
   performs that the IdP cannot: verifying the intra-domain offline
   segment before the boundary is crossed, and vouching first-hand for
   its own workloads' identity, keys, and provenance.  The Chain
   Authority does not see the target of the eventual exchange
   (Section 4.3) and therefore gates only continuation itself, never
   target or scope, which are solely the IdP's to authorize.  With all
   lineage constructed by the IdP (Section 10), the assertion carries
   exactly what the Chain Authority can attest first-hand: the
   authenticated current actor and its key binding.  Deployments needing
   neither capability reduce the Chain Authority to a co-signature over
   identity_continuation_handle and the current actor; the bare grant
   type remains a candidate simplification should working group feedback
   favor it.

Appendix B.  Worked Example (Same-IdP)

   This appendix is non-normative.  This and the following appendices
   cover the three deployment shapes this profile serves: interactive
   SaaS-to-SaaS chaining (this appendix), an unattended background agent
   (Appendix C), and a gateway topology with dynamically determined
   upstream audiences (Appendix D).  This appendix walks the canonical
   flow of Section 8 end-to-end for a single user: ExpenseApp invokes
   ExpenseSaaS, and ExpenseService, the workload handling that request,
   calls TravelSaaS, whose TravelService must call TravelAPI to finish
   the request.  All parties trust one enterprise IdP at
   https://idp.example/. Proof of possession uses DPoP.  JWTs are shown
   as decoded payloads; JOSE headers and signatures are omitted.  Client
   authentication is required on every exchange (Section 7.5) and is
   omitted from all example requests in these appendices for brevity.
   The values are consistent with the examples in Section 4.2,
   Section 7.6, and Section 10.

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +================+===============================+==================+
   | Name           | Value                         | Description      |
   +================+===============================+==================+
   | User           | (none)                        | The human,       |
   |                |                               | authenticated    |
   |                |                               | once at the      |
   |                |                               | IdP.             |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | IdP            | https://idp.example/          | Trust anchor     |
   |                |                               | and              |
   |                |                               | Continuation     |
   |                |                               | Authorization    |
   |                |                               | Server.          |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | ExpenseApp     | expense-app                   | User-facing      |
   |                |                               | application;     |
   |                |                               | first-hop        |
   |                |                               | client.          |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | ExpenseSaaS    | https://expenses.example/     | First SaaS       |
   |                |                               | the user         |
   |                |                               | invokes.         |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | ExpenseService | expense-service               | ExpenseSaaS      |
   |                |                               | workload that    |
   |                |                               | calls            |
   |                |                               | TravelSaaS.      |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | ExpenseRAS     | https://ras.expenses.example/ | Resource         |
   |                |                               | Authorization    |
   |                |                               | Server for       |
   |                |                               | ExpenseAPI.      |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | ExpenseAPI     | https://api.expenses.example/ | Protected        |
   |                |                               | resource         |
   |                |                               | behind           |
   |                |                               | ExpenseRAS.      |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | TravelSaaS     | https://travel.example/       | Downstream       |
   |                |                               | SaaS.            |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | TravelService  | travel-service                | TravelSaaS       |
   |                |                               | workload that    |
   |                |                               | calls            |
   |                |                               | TravelAPI.       |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | TravelRAS      | https://ras.travel.example/   | Resource         |
   |                |                               | Authorization    |
   |                |                               | Server for       |
   |                |                               | TravelAPI.       |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | TravelAPI      | https://api.travel.example/   | Protected        |
   |                |                               | resource         |
   |                |                               | behind           |
   |                |                               | TravelRAS.       |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Chain          | https://ca.travel.example/    | TravelSaaS's     |
   | Authority      |                               | Chain            |
   |                |                               | Authority;       |
   |                |                               | issues the       |
   |                |                               | Identity         |
   |                |                               | Continuation     |
   |                |                               | Assertion for    |
   |                |                               | TravelSaaS       |
   |                |                               | workloads.       |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | BookingSaaS    | https://booking.example/      | Third SaaS,      |
   |                |                               | reached in       |
   |                |                               | the third        |
   |                |                               | hop.             |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | BookingWorker  | booking-worker                | TravelSaaS       |
   |                |                               | workload         |
   |                |                               | delegated        |
   |                |                               | offline for      |
   |                |                               | the Booking      |
   |                |                               | hop.             |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | BookingRAS     | https://ras.booking.example/  | Resource         |
   |                |                               | Authorization    |
   |                |                               | Server for       |
   |                |                               | BookingAPI.      |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | BookingAPI     | https://api.booking.example/  | Protected        |
   |                |                               | resource         |
   |                |                               | behind           |
   |                |                               | BookingRAS.      |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | PartnerSaaS    | https://partner.example/      | SaaS outside     |
   |                |                               | the trust        |
   |                |                               | circle           |
   |                |                               | (Appendix        |
   |                |                               | B.7).            |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Handles        | kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs (root  | Continuation     |
   |                | hop), Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj  | handles; one     |
   |                | (Travel hop)                  | per hop.         |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Subjects       | expense-local-subject,        | The user's       |
   |                | travel-local-subject,         | pairwise         |
   |                | booking-local-subject         | subject at       |
   |                |                               | ExpenseRAS,      |
   |                |                               | TravelRAS,       |
   |                |                               | and              |
   |                |                               | BookingRAS,      |
   |                |                               | respectively.    |
   +----------------+-------------------------------+------------------+

                                  Table 1

   At a glance, the message flow is:

   User authenticates once at the IdP.

   ExpenseApp -> IdP: exchange ID Token
   IdP -> ExpenseApp: ID-JAG(ExpenseRAS) + handle
   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseRAS: ID-JAG
   ExpenseRAS -> ExpenseApp: AT1
   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseSaaS: API request + handle

   ExpenseService -> TravelSaaS: protected request + chain context
   TravelSaaS -> TravelService: verified chain context

   TravelService -> ChainAuthority: request assertion
   ChainAuthority -> TravelService: Identity Continuation Assertion
   TravelService -> IdP: assertion exchange + DPoP
   IdP -> TravelService: ID-JAG(TravelRAS) + handle
   TravelService -> TravelRAS: ID-JAG
   TravelRAS -> TravelService: AT2
   TravelService -> TravelAPI: API call

   The subsections below detail each step; Appendix B.6 then repeats the
   continuation pattern for a third hop to BookingRAS.

B.1.  First Hop: Direct ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS

   ExpenseApp holds an ID Token for the authenticated user and exchanges
   it at the IdP for an ID-JAG scoped to ExpenseRAS.  The request is
   DPoP-bound to ExpenseApp's key:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the expense-app key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.expenses.example/
   resource=https://api.expenses.example/
   scope=expenses.read
   subject_token=<id_token>
   subject_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token
   actor_token=<sender-constrained expense-app credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The IdP authenticates the user from the ID Token, resolves the
   governing session from its sid (Section 7.2), and verifies that
   ExpenseApp's actor credential is constrained to the DPoP key.  The
   session is continuation-capable: existing user consent and enterprise
   policy permit continuation, authorize the immediate Expense target
   and the later Travel and Booking targets, and designate the Travel
   and Booking workloads as permitted continuers, so the IdP establishes
   a chain (Section 7.2).  It records the following target entries in
   the root-chain envelope:

   (https://ras.expenses.example/, https://api.expenses.example/)
       permitted scopes: expenses.read

   (https://ras.travel.example/, https://api.travel.example/)
       permitted scopes: trips.read

   (https://ras.booking.example/, https://api.booking.example/)
       permitted scopes: stays.book

   The envelope also records the continuation authorization, the
   governing authorization, and the chain's expiry.  The root exchange
   does not authorize the later targets merely by requesting the first:
   all three entries must already be supported by the authentication,
   consent, and policy from which the IdP constructs the envelope.  This
   example records the basis as explicit target entries; a deployment
   whose onward targets are not knowable at establishment records the
   consent-and-policy ceiling without enumeration and evaluates the
   Travel target at continuation time (Section 9, rule 14).  The IdP
   then responds:

   {
     "access_token": "<ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS>",
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "expires_in": 300,
     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs"
   }

   The decoded ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS carries the user's ExpenseRAS-local
   subject:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.expenses.example/",
     "sub": "expense-local-subject",

     "client_id": "expense-app",
     "resource": "https://api.expenses.example/",
     "scope": "expenses.read",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-expense-app-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000005,
     "exp": 1710000305,
     "jti": "idjag-expense-01"
   }

   ExpenseApp exchanges this ID-JAG at ExpenseRAS for an access token
   (AT1) and invokes ExpenseSaaS, exactly as for any ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] (not shown).
   ExpenseApp conveys identity_continuation_handle to ExpenseSaaS over
   an authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected control-plane
   channel associated with that API request.  The
   identity_continuation_handle does not appear in the ID-JAG or AT1.

B.2.  Crossing the Boundary into TravelSaaS

   To complete the request, ExpenseService calls TravelSaaS, propagating
   the chain context to TravelService over an authenticated,
   confidential, and integrity-protected channel:

   identity_continuation_handle   = kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs
   actor chain = expense-service (ExpenseSaaS) <- expense-app

   The user's ExpenseRAS-local subject (expense-local-subject) is not
   propagated across the boundary.  The IdP retains the authoritative
   authentication context and root-chain envelope; those values are not
   supplied by TravelService or repeated in the Identity Continuation
   Assertion.

B.3.  Obtaining the Identity Continuation Assertion

   TravelService needs to call TravelAPI behind TravelRAS.  It requests
   an Identity Continuation Assertion from the Chain Authority for this
   identity_continuation_handle, proving control of its key so the Chain
   Authority can bind cnf to it (Section 4.4).  The Chain Authority
   returns the assertion shown in Section 4.2: iss is the Chain
   Authority, aud is the IdP, identity_continuation_handle is the value
   above, the act names travel-service, and cnf.jkt is TravelService's
   key thumbprint.

B.4.  Chained Exchange for the TravelRAS ID-JAG

   TravelService presents the assertion to the IdP as the subject_token,
   DPoP-bound to TravelService's key:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the travel-service key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained travel-service credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.  The IdP runs the checks of Section 9:
   the DPoP key matches both the assertion's cnf.jkt and the actor
   token's key confirmation, travel-service is the actor named in act,
   the identity_continuation_handle is active, and the requested
   TravelRAS, TravelAPI, and trips.read values match the Travel target
   entry in the root-chain envelope.  It then resolves the user's
   TravelRAS-local subject and returns:

   {
     "access_token": "<ID-JAG for TravelRAS>",
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "expires_in": 300,
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",
     "identity_continuation_exp": 1710086400
   }

   The decoded ID-JAG for TravelRAS is the one shown in Section 10: same
   user, but sub is now travel-local-subject, and it carries no
   identity_continuation_handle.  The response returns a fresh handle
   for the newly created Travel hop; the Booking continuation in
   Appendix B.6 presents that handle, so its lineage builds on the
   Travel hop rather than on any sibling branch.

B.5.  Using the TravelRAS ID-JAG

   TravelService exchanges the TravelRAS ID-JAG at TravelRAS for an
   access token (AT2), presenting a fresh DPoP proof with the same
   travel-service key, and calls TravelAPI.  TravelRAS processes the ID-
   JAG as an ordinary ID-JAG and never sees the Identity Continuation
   Assertion or the identity_continuation_handle.

B.6.  Third Hop After Offline Delegation

   Completing the itinerary requires a reservation at BookingSaaS
   (https://booking.example/), whose API https://api.booking.example/
   sits behind https://ras.booking.example/. Inside TravelSaaS, travel-
   service does not make this call itself: it fans out offline to
   booking-worker, another travel.example workload, using an offline
   attenuated delegation token with no IdP round trip (Section 3).  The
   user's subject changes at the Booking boundary, so that hop is a
   continuation.

   booking-worker requests an assertion from https://ca.travel.example/,
   which validates the offline delegation before issuing (Section 4.5)
   and names booking-worker as the current actor:

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.travel.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "booking-worker"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-booking-worker-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000900,
     "exp": 1710001200,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-02"
   }

   booking-worker exchanges the assertion, DPoP-bound to its own key,
   for an ID-JAG with audience=https://ras.booking.example/,
   resource=https://api.booking.example/, and scope=stays.book, all
   within the envelope's Booking target entry.  The IdP constructs the
   onward act chain (Section 10): booking-worker, authenticated at this
   exchange, placed atop the presented hop's lineage (travel-service,
   then expense-app):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.booking.example/",
     "sub": "booking-local-subject",

     "client_id": "booking-worker",
     "resource": "https://api.booking.example/",
     "scope": "stays.book",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "booking-worker",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://travel.example/",
         "sub": "travel-service",
         "act": {
           "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
           "sub": "expense-app"
         }
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-booking-worker-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000920,
     "exp": 1710001220,
     "jti": "idjag-booking-01"
   }

   booking-worker, having performed this exchange, now anchors a new hop
   of the chain, and any continuation presenting that hop's handle
   builds on its lineage.  The offline delegation from travel-service to
   booking-worker does not itself appear in the lineage: the Chain
   Authority validated it before issuance (Section 4.5), and it remains
   auditable through deployment records and the evidence layer
   (Section 4.2).  BookingRAS processes an ordinary ID-JAG whose every
   actor was authenticated by the IdP, including an actor that was
   delegated to offline, which BookingRAS could never have verified
   itself.

B.7.  Reaching a Target Outside the Trust Circle

   Suppose TravelSaaS must also call PartnerSaaS at
   https://partner.example/, whose Resource Authorization Server does
   not trust idp.example.  The chain cannot continue there: the IdP
   holds no pairwise subject for that audience and no authorization
   basis covers it, so a continuation request for that target fails
   (Section 9, rules 14 and 16; invalid_target).  This is the profile's
   boundary, not a deployment error: continuation serves the set of
   Resource Authorization Servers that trust the common IdP.

   The crossing instead follows the identity-chaining model
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining]: travel.example's own
   authorization server issues a grant that PartnerSaaS's server accepts
   under a bilateral trust agreement, for example by exchanging
   TravelService's intra-domain Transaction Token under the Transaction
   Token chaining profile
   [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile].  The subject
   presented to the partner is mapped by travel.example's authorization
   server under that agreement, not by the IdP: the trust direction of
   Appendix A.3, inverted by explicit federation.

   The handle stays behind.  It is conveyed only to chain participants
   (Section 4.6), and PartnerSaaS is not one; the chain simply ends at
   the federation edge.  Audit continuity across the two legs is
   deployment-defined, for example through the chaining profile's txn
   transaction identifier and the evidence layer of Section 4.2.

Appendix C.  Background Agent Example (User-Scheduled Continuation)

   This appendix is non-normative.  It applies the continuation
   machinery of this document to a background agent: the user is present
   once, when the task is created, and absent at every run.  The example
   is the same protocol as Appendix B, time-shifted; nothing new is
   defined.  The property that makes it work is that the task record
   stores only the non-bearer identity_continuation_handle.  The
   platform's refresh token is its ordinary client credential for its
   own grant, used only at the IdP; no per-target user credential is
   ever vaulted, and run-time authority comes from a fresh, sender-
   constrained assertion evaluated against the root-chain envelope.

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +===============+===============================+==================+
   | Name          | Value                         | Description      |
   +===============+===============================+==================+
   | User          | (none)                        | The human,       |
   |               |                               | Alice; present   |
   |               |                               | at setup, absent |
   |               |                               | at every run.    |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | IdP           | https://idp.example/          | Trust anchor and |
   |               |                               | Continuation     |
   |               |                               | Authorization    |
   |               |                               | Server.          |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | BriefingAgent | briefing-agent                | Agent platform   |
   |               |                               | workload that    |
   |               |                               | runs the         |
   |               |                               | scheduled task.  |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Platform      | https://platform.example/     | BriefingAgent's  |
   |               |                               | trust domain and |
   |               |                               | actor issuer.    |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Chain         | https://ca.platform.example/  | The platform's   |
   | Authority     |                               | Chain Authority; |
   |               |                               | issues           |
   |               |                               | assertions for   |
   |               |                               | its workloads.   |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | CalendarRAS   | https://ras.calendar.example/ | Resource         |
   |               |                               | Authorization    |
   |               |                               | Server for the   |
   |               |                               | calendar         |
   |               |                               | service.         |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | CalendarAPI   | https://api.calendar.example/ | Protected        |
   |               |                               | resource behind  |
   |               |                               | CalendarRAS.     |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Scheduler     | (internal)                    | Platform         |
   |               |                               | component that   |
   |               |                               | triggers each    |
   |               |                               | run.             |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | MailRAS       | https://ras.mail.example/     | Resource         |
   |               |                               | Authorization    |
   |               |                               | Server for the   |
   |               |                               | mail upstream    |
   |               |                               | (Appendix C.4).  |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | MailAPI       | https://api.mail.example/     | Mail protected   |
   |               |                               | resource         |
   |               |                               | (Appendix C.4).  |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Handle        | Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa        | Root hop handle, |
   |               |                               | stored with the  |
   |               |                               | task.            |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+
   | Subject       | alice-calendar-subject        | Alice's pairwise |
   |               |                               | subject at       |
   |               |                               | CalendarRAS.     |
   +---------------+-------------------------------+------------------+

                                 Table 2

C.1.  Setup (Alice Present)

   Alice schedules "summarize my calendar every morning" and authorizes
   it in an active session. briefing-agent, the platform workload,
   authenticates as the OAuth client and performs the direct ID-JAG
   exchange of Section 7.  Because the task must outlive Alice's
   session, her consent takes the form OAuth already has for durable
   delegation: a continuation-capable grant to the platform with refresh
   capability and an explicit maximum lifetime.  The platform presents a
   refresh token from that grant as the subject_token, so the grant is
   the chain's governing authorization (Section 7.2, Section 6), with
   briefing-agent as the permitted continuer; the envelope's authorized
   target entry is exactly the task's need:
   (https://ras.calendar.example/, https://api.calendar.example/,
   calendar.read).  The IdP records the envelope, with briefing-agent as
   the authenticated root actor, and responds with the ID-JAG plus:

   {
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa",
     "identity_continuation_exp": 1714592000
   }

   The platform stores the task.  This record contains no credential:

   task: morning-calendar-brief
     user:     alice
     agent:    briefing-agent           # the authorized continuer
     identity_continuation_handle: Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa  # non-bearer
     identity_continuation_exp: 1714592000
     schedule: "0 7 * * *"

C.2.  Each Run (Alice Absent)

   At a glance, each run proceeds as follows:

   Scheduler      -> BriefingAgent:  run task, here is the handle
   BriefingAgent  -> ChainAuthority: assertion for the stored handle,
                                     bound to the briefing-agent key
   ChainAuthority -> BriefingAgent:  Identity Continuation Assertion
   BriefingAgent  -> IdP:            Token Exchange (assertion + DPoP)
   IdP:                              validate per the rules of the
                                     validation section; resolve Alice's
                                     Calendar subject; mint
   IdP            -> BriefingAgent:  ID-JAG(CalendarRAS) + handle
   BriefingAgent  -> CalendarRAS:    ID-JAG -> access token (DPoP)
   BriefingAgent  -> CalendarAPI:    read calendar -> summarize

   The assertion is the ordinary artifact of Section 4.2, issued by the
   platform's own Chain Authority for its own workload (Section 4.4):
   iss is https://ca.platform.example/, aud is the IdP,
   identity_continuation_handle is the stored value, the act claim is
   briefing-agent, and cnf binds the agent's key.  The onward ID-JAG
   carries Alice's Calendar-local subject, an act chain of briefing-
   agent (the root and continuing actor are the same workload here), and
   Alice's real authentication context from setup:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.calendar.example/",
     "sub": "alice-calendar-subject",

     "client_id": "briefing-agent",
     "resource": "https://api.calendar.example/",
     "scope": "calendar.read",

     "auth_time": 1712000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://platform.example/",
       "sub": "briefing-agent"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-briefing-agent-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1712900001,
     "exp": 1712900301,
     "jti": "idjag-cal-alice-01"
   }

C.3.  Points Worth Noticing

   The auth_time is honest and inherited: it records when Alice actually
   authenticated at setup, possibly days before this run (Section 11.3).
   CalendarRAS decides whether that staleness is acceptable for
   calendar.read; nothing presents the run as a fresh login.

   Each run consumes a fresh, single-use assertion; between runs the
   platform holds nothing presentable.  Theft of the stored record
   yields an identity_continuation_handle that is useless without the
   agent's key (Section 5).  Each run presents the stored root handle
   and creates its own hop, receiving that hop's fresh handle for any
   onward hops within the run; sibling runs are independent branches of
   the chain.

   The chain fails closed.  When Alice revokes the governing grant or
   identity_continuation_exp passes, the next exchange fails validation
   (Section 9, rule 7) and cannot succeed by retrying: the platform's
   signal to seek re-authorization from Alice. identity_continuation_exp
   lets the platform anticipate expiry and prompt her before the task
   silently stops, and, where the IdP provides the management interfaces
   encouraged by Section 6, the chain is visible and revocable there.

   This pattern requires a user-present setup event to root the chain.
   Where no such event exists (for example, an administratively mandated
   agent acting for users who never authorized it), there is no
   delegation to continue and this profile does not apply; such
   deployments need a differently rooted authorization, such as
   administrative policy at the IdP, which is out of scope for this
   document.

C.4.  A Dynamic Target

   Suppose the platform later extends the briefing to include unread
   mail, which requires https://api.mail.example/ behind
   https://ras.mail.example/: a target nobody named when Alice created
   the task.  Under the target entries recorded in the setup above, the
   agent's exchange for that audience fails, and the chain is otherwise
   unaffected:

   HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
   Content-Type: application/json

   {
     "error": "invalid_target"
   }

   For a deployment that expects dynamic targets, the envelope's basis
   is Alice's standing consent (for example, a productivity read-access
   grant she holds) and tenant policy, with no enumerated targets, and
   the IdP evaluates it at continuation time (Section 9, rule 14).  The
   same exchange then succeeds only if read access to the mail service
   is within Alice's standing consent and tenant policy permits
   briefing-agent to reach it.  A request for mail.send, outside that
   consent, fails with invalid_scope.

   The envelope guardrail applies: evaluation is bounded by the consent
   and policy in force when the chain was established.  If the tenant
   later broadens policy, existing chains do not gain the new authority;
   if it narrows, they lose it at the next run.  Both failures are per-
   request (invalid_target, invalid_scope), and the chain remains
   continuable for authorized targets, in contrast to a dead chain,
   which fails every request (Section 9, rule 7).

Appendix D.  Gateway Example (Dynamic Upstream Audiences)

   This appendix is non-normative.  It applies the continuation
   machinery to a gateway or proxy topology, common in AI tool-calling
   deployments: the runtime that starts the user's session routes tool
   calls through a gateway that aggregates upstream services, each
   protected by its own Resource Authorization Server trusting the same
   IdP.  The defining tension is that the session runtime cannot know
   which upstream a given tool call will require, while the gateway,
   which does know, holds no end-user credential addressed to it.
   Neither party can be given the other's power without harm: the
   runtime must not mint arbitrary cross-domain grants, and the gateway
   must not present an identity assertion whose audience it is not.

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +=================+==============================+==================+
   | Name            | Value                        | Description      |
   +=================+==============================+==================+
   | User            | (none)                       | The human,       |
   |                 |                              | Alice; her       |
   |                 |                              | session runs     |
   |                 |                              | in AgentApp.     |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | IdP             | https://idp.example/         | Trust anchor     |
   |                 |                              | and              |
   |                 |                              | Continuation     |
   |                 |                              | Authorization    |
   |                 |                              | Server.          |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | AgentApp        | agent-app                    | Confidential     |
   |                 |                              | agent runtime;   |
   |                 |                              | hosts Alice's    |
   |                 |                              | session and      |
   |                 |                              | roots the        |
   |                 |                              | chain.           |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | AgentPlatform   | https://agent.example/       | AgentApp's       |
   |                 |                              | trust domain     |
   |                 |                              | and actor        |
   |                 |                              | issuer.          |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | Gateway         | tool-gateway                 | Tool gateway     |
   |                 |                              | workload;        |
   |                 |                              | continues the    |
   |                 |                              | chain per tool   |
   |                 |                              | call.            |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | GatewayPlatform | https://gateway.example/     | The gateway's    |
   |                 |                              | trust domain     |
   |                 |                              | and actor        |
   |                 |                              | issuer.          |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | GatewayRAS      | https://ras.gateway.example/ | Resource         |
   |                 |                              | Authorization    |
   |                 |                              | Server           |
   |                 |                              | protecting the   |
   |                 |                              | gateway.         |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | Chain Authority | https://ca.gateway.example/  | The gateway      |
   |                 |                              | platform's       |
   |                 |                              | Chain            |
   |                 |                              | Authority;       |
   |                 |                              | issues           |
   |                 |                              | assertions for   |
   |                 |                              | its workloads.   |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | WikiRAS         | https://ras.wiki.example/    | Resource         |
   |                 |                              | Authorization    |
   |                 |                              | Server for the   |
   |                 |                              | wiki upstream.   |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | WikiAPI         | https://api.wiki.example/    | Upstream         |
   |                 |                              | protected        |
   |                 |                              | resource         |
   |                 |                              | behind           |
   |                 |                              | WikiRAS.         |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | Handle          | Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd       | Root hop         |
   |                 |                              | handle.          |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+
   | Subject         | alice-wiki-subject           | Alice's          |
   |                 |                              | pairwise         |
   |                 |                              | subject at       |
   |                 |                              | WikiRAS.         |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+------------------+

                                  Table 3

   At a glance, the message flow is:

   Alice authenticates in agent-app.

   AgentApp -> IdP:            (1) direct exchange: Alice's ID Token
   IdP -> AgentApp:            (2) ID-JAG(GatewayRAS) + handle
   AgentApp -> GatewayRAS:     (3) ID-JAG
   GatewayRAS -> AgentApp:     (4) gateway access token
   AgentApp -> Gateway:        (5) tool call + handle header

   Gateway resolves the tool call to the wiki upstream.

   Gateway -> ChainAuthority:  (6) request assertion for the handle
   ChainAuthority -> Gateway:  (7) Identity Continuation Assertion
   Gateway -> IdP:             (8) chained exchange (assertion + DPoP)
   IdP -> Gateway:             (9) ID-JAG(WikiRAS) + handle
   Gateway -> WikiRAS:         (10) ID-JAG
   WikiRAS -> Gateway:         (11) wiki access token
   Gateway -> WikiAPI:         (12) tool call executes

   The subsections below detail each step.

D.1.  Root Exchange: The Runtime Roots the Chain

   Alice authenticates in agent-app, a confidential client whose
   client_id is the audience of her identity assertion, so agent-app
   performs the direct exchange of Section 7 for the one audience it
   does know: the gateway (audience=https://ras.gateway.example/) (steps
   1 and 2).  Alice's standing consent makes the session continuation-
   capable, and the IdP establishes a chain (Section 7.2); because tool
   routing is dynamic, it records the envelope's authorization basis as
   Alice's standing consent and tenant policy, with no enumerated
   targets (Section 9, rule 14), and agent-app as the authenticated root
   actor.  Enterprise policy registers tool-gateway as an actor
   permitted to continue chains rooted this way (Section 9, rule 10).
   The response returns identity_continuation_handle
   Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd.

   agent-app exchanges its gateway ID-JAG at ras.gateway.example for an
   access token (steps 3 and 4) and invokes the gateway, conveying the
   identity_continuation_handle with the request per the HTTP binding
   (Section 4.6) (step 5):

   Identity-Continuation-Handle: Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd

D.2.  Chained Exchange: The Gateway Continues

   A tool call in Alice's session requires the wiki service.  Only the
   gateway knows this routing. tool-gateway requests an Identity
   Continuation Assertion from https://ca.gateway.example/, proving
   control of its key so the Chain Authority can bind cnf to it
   (Section 4.4) (steps 6 and 7):

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.gateway.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://gateway.example/",
       "sub": "tool-gateway"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-tool-gateway-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1713000390,
     "exp": 1713000690,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-03"
   }

   tool-gateway presents the assertion to the IdP as the subject_token,
   DPoP-bound to its key (step 8):

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the tool-gateway key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.wiki.example/
   resource=https://api.wiki.example/
   scope=wiki.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained tool-gateway credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.  The IdP verifies that tool-gateway is a
   permitted continuer and that the DPoP key matches both the
   assertion's cnf.jkt and the actor token's confirmation, and evaluates
   the basis now: wiki read access is within Alice's standing consent,
   and tenant policy permits the gateway to reach it.  It resolves
   Alice's wiki-local subject and mints (step 9):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.wiki.example/",
     "sub": "alice-wiki-subject",

     "client_id": "tool-gateway",
     "resource": "https://api.wiki.example/",
     "scope": "wiki.read",

     "auth_time": 1713000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://gateway.example/",
       "sub": "tool-gateway",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://agent.example/",
         "sub": "agent-app"
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-tool-gateway-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1713000400,
     "exp": 1713000700,
     "jti": "idjag-wiki-01"
   }

   The gateway exchanges this at ras.wiki.example for an access token
   and calls the wiki API (steps 10 through 12).  A different tool call
   tomorrow reaches a different upstream through the same machinery: a
   fresh assertion, a fresh continuation-time policy decision, no new
   consent ceremony, and the same denial behavior as Appendix C.4 for
   targets or scopes outside Alice's standing consent.  Concurrent tool
   calls present the same stored root handle and become sibling hops
   with independent lineage.

D.3.  Points Worth Noticing

   The identity assertion's audience check is never weakened.  Alice's
   assertion is presented exactly once, by the client that is its
   audience.  The gateway never presents it; the gateway's authority is
   a continuation assertion bound to the gateway's own key, evaluated
   against the envelope.  Strict audience validation for identity
   assertions and a working proxy topology coexist.

   The upstream Resource Authorization Server consumes an ordinary ID-
   JAG whose act chain states precisely what a proxy topology needs
   stated: this gateway, acting for a delegation rooted by this runtime
   for this user, for this audience and scope, under a policy decision
   made at continuation time.  The lineage is authenticated by the IdP,
   not reported by the gateway (Section 10).

   Neither party ever holds the other's power.  The runtime performed
   one exchange for one audience it already knew; the gateway can
   request only what the envelope's basis permits, per target, per hop,
   revocable at the IdP (Section 6).

   This example assumes a confidential runtime.  Where the session
   runtime is a public client, the continuation flow after root
   establishment is unchanged, but bootstrapping the root exchange from
   a public client raises considerations in the underlying ID-JAG
   profile (which recommends Token Exchange for confidential clients)
   and is not addressed here.

Appendix E.  Open Items for Working Group Discussion

   This appendix is non-normative.  It lists design questions the author
   has deliberately left open for working group discussion; feedback on
   any of them is welcome.

   [[ To be removed before publication as an RFC ]]

   1.   *Nested own-domain act segments (designed future extension).* In
        this version an assertion's act names only the current actor,
        and all lineage is IdP-authenticated (Section 4.2, Section 10).
        The designed extension would let a Chain Authority additionally
        assert a verified intra-domain segment (actors of an offline
        attenuated stack within its own trust domain) as nested act
        values.  The solution shape: own-domain actors only, with the
        verified leaf outermost; the IdP composes the segment atop the
        hop lineage, collapses an actor that appears in both so that
        each actor appears once, and applies depth policy to the
        composed chain.  Enabling it is additive, lifting the single-
        level schema constraint of Section 4.2; an IdP at this version
        rejects nested act values deterministically.  Should that
        extension ship, or is offline-actor audit better left to the
        evidence layer ([I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts],
        [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs])?

   2.   *Signed assertion versus a recipient-bound direct profile.*
        Appendix A.5 documents an alternative in which the continuing
        workload presents the handle directly under client
        authentication, with no assertion, Chain Authority, or per-
        assertion replay state.  Implementer review indicates that a raw
        handle is not an adequate subject token for such a profile: an
        actor credential proves who the actor is, not that this actor
        was authorized to receive and continue this particular chain.
        The sketched direct profile instead uses a recipient-bound
        continuation credential: when the IdP returns a hop's handle, it
        binds that handle to an intended successor (a specific actor, an
        actor class, a trust domain, or a confirmation key); a
        continuation presenting the handle succeeds only for that
        successor, and only together with client authentication, a
        sender-constrained actor token, and live proof of possession.
        Which profile should ship, and is the Chain Authority's
        remaining role (actor and key vouching plus a domain-local gate)
        worth its trust configuration where recipient binding is
        available?

   3.   *Pull topology.* Appendix A.4 documents resolution at the target
        Resource Authorization Server as a candidate companion profile
        that moves the integration cost from the IdP side to the target
        side.

   4.   *Mutual-TLS binding.* Deliberately not specified while the ID-
        JAG profile defines only DPoP-based binding (Section 7.4).
        Should the two profiles add mutual-TLS binding together?

   5.   *A client establishment parameter.* Establishment is
        authorization-driven, with no request parameter (Section 7.2),
        because the first-hop client cannot generally predict downstream
        chaining.  Should a future parameter let a client require
        establishment (failing fast when policy will not root a chain),
        suppress it (declining a handle it does not want), or negotiate
        lifetime, depth, or permitted continuers?

   6.   *Binding chain context to the local transaction.* Chain-context
        provenance (Section 4.5) requires an authorized channel but does
        not bind a received handle to the inbound request, the prior
        actor, or the user context the receiver observed.  A multi-user
        gateway holds many valid handles, and if it associates the wrong
        handle with a request, the IdP resolves the user from whichever
        chain the handle names.  Should a future revision standardize
        one interoperable provenance profile?  The sketched candidate
        carries the handle inside a Transaction Token
        [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens] together with the parent
        actor and request context, so the Chain Authority verifies an
        integrity-protected association among chain, actor, and local
        transaction rather than relying on channel authentication alone;
        actor-signed hop proofs [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs] are
        an alternative carrier.

   7.   *Actor-token profile discovery.* This profile constrains
        accepted actor-token types, validity, and applicability
        (Section 7.4; Section 9, rule 10).  How much of an IdP's
        accepted actor-token profile (types, issuers, proof methods),
        and of its other capabilities (confirmation methods, maximum
        assertion lifetime, an issuance endpoint, HTTP binding support,
        and error-detail support), should be advertised in its metadata
        (Section 7.7) rather than learned out of band?

   8.   *A continuation-specific error code.* A dead hop (Section 9,
        rule 7) returns invalid_request per Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693],
        the same code as a malformed request, so an unattended client
        cannot distinguish "seek re-authorization" from "fix the
        request" by the code alone.  Should this profile register a
        continuation-specific error code (for example,
        invalid_continuation), or define a supplementary error_details
        member carrying a reason taxonomy (for example,
        assertion_expired, handle_not_continuable, continuation_revoked,
        actor_not_permitted, target_outside_envelope,
        reauthentication_required) so unattended clients get machine-
        actionable failure semantics without new top-level codes?

   9.   *A Chain Authority issuance profile.* How an actor obtains an
        assertion is out of scope (Section 4.4), which limits end-to-end
        interoperability between independently implemented actors and
        Chain Authorities.  The sketch is a token endpoint-style
        request:

      POST /identity-continuation-assertion HTTP/1.1
      DPoP: <proof>

      identity_continuation_handle=<handle>
      audience=https://idp.example/

        The authenticated workload identity and proof key determine act
        and cnf, never caller-supplied values, with errors, discovery,
        and retry behavior defined.  Such a profile could also let the
        Chain Authority bind optional narrowing constraints into the
        assertion (an intended target, resource, or authorization-
        details digest) that the IdP would enforce as ceilings on the
        exchange, reducing assertion-repurposing risk without making the
        Chain Authority a target authority.

   10.  *A normative authorization-basis representation.* The envelope's
        authorization basis is internal IdP state, so conformance with
        its MAY-narrow, MUST NOT-broaden rule is observable only through
        behavior.  Implementer review asks for a testable
        representation: for explicit targets, for example,

      { "targets": [ { "audience": "https://ras.travel.example/",
          "resource": "https://api.travel.example/",
          "scope": ["trips.read"] } ] }

        and, for dynamic ceilings, a concrete form such as an RAR
        authorization detail [RFC9396], a policy-bound intent object, or
        an immutable policy-evaluation artifact.  Should a future
        revision standardize one?

Acknowledgments

   The author thanks the authors of OAuth Identity and Authorization
   Chaining Across Domains and the Identity Assertion JWT Authorization
   Grant, on whose work this profile builds.

Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -00

   *  Initial revision

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
