



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                            28 July 2026
Expires: 29 January 2027


      Identity Continuation Assertion for OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange
        draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion-latest

Abstract

   This document profiles OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange to define the
   Identity Continuation Assertion: a short-lived, sender-constrained
   JSON Web Token (JWT) that carries verifiable evidence of a delegation
   chain into a Token Exchange request.  A Continuation Authorization
   Server can then issue an onward authorization grant without
   subjecting the user to a new interactive authentication.  The primary
   use case is same-Identity-Provider (same-IdP) chaining between
   software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications, in which several Resource
   Authorization Servers trust a single enterprise IdP and each names
   the user under its own audience-local (pairwise) subject identifier.
   Because only the IdP holds the map from a root delegation to each
   audience's subject, and crossing a boundary that renames the user is
   a re-issuance rather than an attenuation, the IdP remains the sole
   issuer of the onward Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant (ID-
   JAG) at every cross-boundary hop.  The assertion is the evidence
   carried into the exchange; the resulting grant is the authority.
   This profile complements, and does not replace, offline attenuated
   delegation, which is appropriate for intra-domain fan-out that does
   not change the user's subject identifier.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-
   assertion/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion.html.
   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-
   continuation-assertion/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (mailto:oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-
   assertion.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 29 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Why a New Input Is Needed
     1.2.  Core Principle
     1.3.  Relationship to ID-JAG and Identity Chaining
     1.4.  Continuation Handle Carriers
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  When to Use This Profile Versus Offline Attenuation
   4.  The Identity Continuation Assertion
     4.1.  Token Type and Media Type
     4.2.  Claims
     4.3.  Claims That Are Deliberately Excluded
     4.4.  Assertion Issuance and Key Binding
     4.5.  Chain-Context Provenance
     4.6.  Transaction Token Chain Context
   5.  Continuation Handles (identity_continuation_handle)
     5.1.  Handle Freshness and Unlinkability
   6.  Chain Lifetime and Revocation
   7.  Token Exchange Profile
     7.1.  Direct ID-JAG Request
     7.2.  Establishing a Chain
     7.3.  Chained ID-JAG Request
     7.4.  Sender-Constrained Presentation
     7.5.  Client Identity and Authentication
     7.6.  Continuation Handle Delivery
     7.7.  Authorization Server Metadata
   8.  Same-IdP Core Flow
   9.  IdP Validation for the Continuation Exchange
   10. Onward ID-JAG
   11. Continuation-Aware Resource Authorization Server
     11.1.  Hop Activation
     11.2.  A Gate, Not a Ceiling
     11.3.  Durable Task Authorization
   12. Security Considerations
     12.1.  Sender Constraint and Proof of Possession
     12.2.  Short Lifetime and Replay
     12.3.  Root Authentication Context
     12.4.  Envelope Enforcement and Offline Attenuation
     12.5.  Trust in the Transaction Token Service
     12.6.  Trust in the Chain Authority
     12.7.  Trust in Actor Token Issuers
     12.8.  Conjunctive Trust and Issuer Pairing
     12.9.  Actor Chain Integrity
     12.10. Token, Type, and Algorithm Confusion
   13. Privacy Considerations
   14. IANA Considerations
     14.1.  OAuth URI Registration
     14.2.  Media Type Registration
     14.3.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration
     14.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration
   15. References
     15.1.  Normative References
     15.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Design Rationale
     A.1.  Relationship to ID-JAG
     A.2.  Why Not a Transaction Token
     A.3.  Why Not a Cross-Domain Propagation Token
     A.4.  Alternative Topology: Resolution at the Target
     A.5.  Why a Signed Assertion Rather Than a Bare Grant Type
   Appendix B.  Worked Example (Same-IdP)
     B.1.  First Hop: Direct ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS
     B.2.  ExpenseRAS Acceptance and the Expense-Domain Chain Context
     B.3.  Obtaining the Identity Continuation Assertion
     B.4.  Chained Exchange for the TravelRAS ID-JAG
     B.5.  TravelRAS Acceptance and the Travel-Domain Chain Context
     B.6.  Third Hop: TravelService Continues to BookingRAS
     B.7.  Reaching a Target Outside the Trust Circle
   Appendix C.  Background Agent Example (User-Scheduled Continuation)
     C.1.  Setup (Alice Present)
     C.2.  Each Run (Alice Absent)
     C.3.  Points Worth Noticing
     C.4.  A Dynamic Target
   Appendix D.  Gateway Example (Dynamic Upstream Audiences)
     D.1.  Root Exchange: The Runtime Roots the Chain
     D.2.  Chained Exchange: The Gateway Continues
     D.3.  Points Worth Noticing
   Appendix E.  Open Items for Working Group Discussion
   Acknowledgments
   Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Modern enterprise software-as-a-service (SaaS) deployments
   increasingly chain calls across application boundaries on behalf of a
   single human user.  A user authenticates once at an enterprise
   Identity Provider (IdP) and invokes an application; completing the
   user's request requires that application to call a second
   application, which in turn must call a third.  Increasingly the
   calling party is an automated agent acting for the user, fanning out
   onward calls while the user is no longer present, which makes this
   pattern both more common and more acute.  Each application exposes an
   API protected by its own Resource Authorization Server (RAS), and all
   of these Resource Authorization Servers trust the same enterprise IdP
   for single sign-on (SSO), for delegation continuity, and for
   resolving the user's identity into an audience-local subject
   identifier.

   The key use case addressed by this document is therefore:

   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseSaaS/ExpenseRAS -> TravelSaaS/TravelRAS
              -> BookingSaaS/BookingRAS

   The user authenticates once at the enterprise IdP and is never
   redirected through a new interactive flow for an onward hop.  The IdP
   remains the trust anchor, and each onward grant is audience-scoped
   and carries the subject identifier appropriate for its target RAS.

1.1.  Why a New Input Is Needed

   The first hop is an ordinary identity assertion exchange: ExpenseApp
   holds a credential for the authenticated user (for example, an ID
   Token or refresh token) and exchanges it at the IdP for an Identity
   Assertion JWT Authorization Grant (ID-JAG), exactly as in
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].  Every subsequent
   hop is different: by the time TravelSaaS must call BookingSaaS, the
   user is no longer present and TravelSaaS holds no end-user credential
   to present.  Only chain context crossed the boundary, so TravelSaaS
   cannot perform a normal exchange even though the same IdP could mint
   the next grant.

   This document defines the missing input.  An Identity Continuation
   Assertion is a short-lived, sender-constrained, verifiable statement
   about the in-flight delegation chain, presented to the IdP in place
   of an end-user credential so the IdP can resolve the next audience's
   subject and issue the next onward grant (Section 1.2).

1.2.  Core Principle

   Each RAS trusts only the IdP to name the user and to scope authority
   over its resources; it does not accept another SaaS domain's word for
   either.  The IdP therefore remains the issuer at every cross-boundary
   hop as a matter of trust direction, whatever form subject identifiers
   take.  Pairwise subjects strengthen that trust rule into a structural
   impossibility: where each RAS resolves the user under its own
   audience-local subject identifier, only the IdP holds the map from
   the root delegation to those per-audience subjects, and no downstream
   party or offline authority can mint a correct onward sub.
   Deployments whose subject identifiers are globally consistent (for
   example, email-based) still require the IdP at every hop for trust
   direction and revocation; adopting audience-local subjects
   additionally yields the pairwise privacy property.

   An onward hop that re-subjects the user is therefore a re-issuance,
   not an attenuation.  A holder can only narrow authority it already
   possesses; it cannot synthesize a subject it was never issued.  The
   Identity Continuation Assertion supplies the fresh, sender-
   constrained evidence the IdP needs to mint the next grant, used as a
   Token Exchange subject token to obtain an onward ID-JAG, the output
   of this profile.

   The profile therefore serves two inseparable requirements of this
   deployment model: identity continuity, resolving the same root user
   into each new audience-local subject, and authorization continuity,
   proving that the requested onward authority remains within the root
   delegation.

   This document defines the evidence format, Token Exchange parameters,
   validation rules, and IANA registrations needed for that exchange.
   It does not define a new access token format, does not allow a
   Resource Server to consume the Identity Continuation Assertion
   directly, and does not allow a Chain Authority to name the user for
   the target audience.

1.3.  Relationship to ID-JAG and Identity Chaining

   This profile builds directly on OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange [RFC8693]
   and JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) [RFC7519], and it is a continuation
   extension of the ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] within the cross-
   domain model of OAuth Identity and Authorization Chaining Across
   Domains [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining].  ID-JAG covers the
   exchange at the first hop, where the requester still holds an end-
   user credential.  It does not by itself cover later hops, where a
   downstream service holds no end-user credential to exchange and
   cannot mint the next audience's subject (Section 1.2).  This profile
   supplies the missing input for those hops and reuses the ID-JAG token
   type as the onward grant type, rather than defining a competing
   grant.

   It composes with, and is positioned relative to, the Workload
   Identity in Multi-System Environments (WIMSE) architecture
   [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch] and offline attenuated delegation tokens used
   for intra-domain fan-out.

   Concretely, this profile adds to the ID-JAG exchange: a new
   subject_token type (Section 4.1) for the continuation evidence, the
   identity_continuation_handle claim the IdP embeds in each
   continuation-capable ID-JAG (Section 7.2, Section 5), continuation-
   aware Resource Authorization Server processing that binds that claim
   to authorization state (Section 11), the IdP validation rules for a
   continuation request (Section 9), the intra-domain Transaction Token
   carrier for chain context (Section 4.6), and authorization server
   metadata signals (Section 7.7).  This profile therefore profiles both
   ID-JAG issuance and its acceptance at the Resource Authorization
   Server.

1.4.  Continuation Handle Carriers

   A continuation handle (Section 5) keeps its value through a hop, but
   it is carried by whichever mechanism suits the lifetime of the
   context that needs it.  This profile is one continuation protocol
   with three such carriers:

   *  *Cross-domain*, for the life of one exchange: the handle travels
      only inside a continuation-capable ID-JAG, addressed to the
      accepting Resource Authorization Server (Section 5, Section 11).

   *  *Within an active request*, inside a trust domain: the handle
      travels in a Transaction Token that the domain's Transaction Token
      Service (TTS) derives from the accepted authorization state
      (Section 4.6).

   *  *Across time*, for scheduled or unattended work: the handle stays
      in durable authorization state a Resource Authorization Server
      bound, referenced externally only by an opaque task identifier
      (Section 11.3).

   The unifying rule is that an application never chooses or persists a
   continuation handle merely to transport it.  At every lifetime the
   authoritative store is server-side, and the application carries only
   an artifact from which the correct handle is derived:

    +==================+=====================+=======================+
    | Situation        | Authoritative store | Application carries   |
    +==================+=====================+=======================+
    | Cross-domain hop | IdP hop state       | ID-JAG carrying the   |
    |                  |                     | new handle            |
    +------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+
    | Active request   | RAS authorization   | Access token; the TTS |
    |                  | state               | derives the context   |
    +------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+
    | Scheduled        | Durable task/RAS    | Opaque task           |
    | execution        | authorization       | identifier            |
    +------------------+---------------------+-----------------------+

                                 Table 1

   This is what stops a workload from selecting, substituting, or
   hoarding a handle: at each lifetime the handle is bound to server-
   side state rather than held by the client as a free-floating value
   (Section 12).

   Open design questions on which the author seeks working group
   feedback are collected in Appendix E.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses the following terms:

   Identity Provider (IdP):  The enterprise authority that authenticates
      the user, anchors trust for a set of Resource Authorization
      Servers, holds the map from a root delegation to each audience's
      subject identifier, and issues onward authorization grants.  In
      this profile, the IdP is the Continuation Authorization Server.

   Continuation Authorization Server:  The Authorization Server to which
      an Identity Continuation Assertion is presented to obtain an
      onward grant.  In the same-IdP use case of this document, it is
      the enterprise IdP at every hop.

   Resource Authorization Server (RAS):  An Authorization Server that
      protects a particular SaaS API and trusts the enterprise IdP for
      SSO and subject resolution.  It consumes an ID-JAG as an
      authorization grant and issues access tokens for its API.

   Resource Server (RS):  The service that hosts a protected API and
      consumes the access tokens issued by its Resource Authorization
      Server.  A Resource Server never consumes an Identity Continuation
      Assertion, no token it consumes carries an
      identity_continuation_handle, and its authorization decisions
      never depend on one.  A co-located workload MAY receive a handle
      only as intra-domain control-plane context (Section 4.6) and MUST
      NOT place it in a token it issues, an access token, or an external
      authorization claim (Section 5, rule 4); Section 13 governs
      further disclosure.

   ID-JAG:  An Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant
      [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]: the onward
      authorization grant the IdP issues for a target RAS.

   Identity Continuation Assertion:  A short-lived, sender-constrained
      JWT, defined by this document, issued by a Chain Authority and
      presented to the IdP as the subject_token of a Token Exchange
      request in order to obtain an onward authorization grant.  Its
      token type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-
      continuation.

   Chain:  The server-side delegation record the IdP establishes for a
      continuable delegation (Section 7.2): a tree of hops under one
      governing authorization, with lineage read along each hop's parent
      path (Section 5).

   Chain Authority:  The party trusted by the Continuation Authorization
      Server to assert chain evidence for a given tenant and to issue
      Identity Continuation Assertions.  It is a role, not a new
      component: commonly an existing party the IdP already trusts (a
      Resource Authorization Server, a transaction-token service, or a
      domain gateway), though it may be a dedicated service.  It is
      never the authority for resolving the target audience's user
      subject identifier.

   Current actor (presenting actor):  The workload that presents the
      Identity Continuation Assertion and the Token Exchange request to
      the IdP.  It is identified by the act claim and authenticated by
      the actor_token.

   Tenant:  The administrative boundary (for example, an enterprise
      customer of the IdP) within which a chain is established and trust
      in a Chain Authority is configured.  How a tenant is determined is
      deployment-defined and otherwise out of scope for this document.

   Trust domain:  The administrative and authentication boundary within
      which a party, such as a Chain Authority or a workload identity
      issuer, can directly authenticate workloads and vouch for their
      identities (for example, one SaaS provider's production
      environment).  It is comparable to the trust-domain concept of the
      WIMSE architecture [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch]; how a trust domain is
      identified is deployment-defined.

   Continuation Handle (identity_continuation_handle):  An opaque,
      unguessable, IdP-generated reference to one hop of a delegation
      chain; see Section 5.

   Hop:  One continuation point in a chain: the root delegation context,
      or a successful continuation recorded with an immutable reference
      to its parent hop.  A chain's hops form a tree, and a hop's
      lineage is the path from that hop to the root.

   Root-chain envelope:  The state the IdP records when it establishes a
      chain and evaluates every continuation against.  It is derived
      from the user's authentication and consent and from tenant policy,
      and comprises:

      *  the authenticated user;

      *  the authentication context (auth_time, acr, amr);

      *  the authorization basis for onward targets;

      *  the continuation authorization: the actors or trust domains
         permitted to continue the chain, and the basis on which that
         permission was established (Section 7.2);

      *  any maximum actor-chain depth set by policy;

      *  the chain's governing authorization (Section 6); and

      *  the chain's expiry.

      Every envelope dimension is a ceiling captured at establishment:
      later policy MAY narrow or revoke any dimension, but MUST NOT
      broaden one, and broader authority requires establishing a new
      chain (Section 7.2).  The authorization basis is the ceiling on
      onward targets, captured from the user's consent and tenant policy
      and recorded (for example, a policy version or an evaluated
      maximal grant); the IdP evaluates every continuation against it at
      request time.  A deployment whose onward targets are known at
      establishment may record the basis as explicit target entries,
      each binding one audience and resource to the scopes, and
      optionally the authorization details [RFC9396], that may be
      requested for that target; dynamic fan-out, in which onward
      targets are not enumerable at establishment, needs no enumeration.
      See Section 9 and Section 6.

   Audience-local (pairwise) subject:  The subject identifier under
      which a particular RAS names the user.  Distinct Resource
      Authorization Servers may name the same user with different
      identifiers; only the IdP holds the map between them.

3.  When to Use This Profile Versus Offline Attenuation

   The deciding question is subject resolution, not cost.

   *  If the next audience requires a _different_ subject identifier
      (pairwise subjects, where only the IdP holds the map), only the
      IdP can mint that hop: an Identity Continuation Assertion to the
      IdP is used, because offline tokens cannot produce the next
      audience's sub.

   *  If the _same_ subject identifier, or a key-based workload
      identity, suffices down a local fan-out, there is no reason to
      round-trip the IdP: an offline attenuated delegation token (for
      example, [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization]) is used instead,
      and the IdP is reserved for the boundary hops.

   In the canonical flow both appear: an offline attenuated stack inside
   TravelSaaS as it fans out to sub-agents, and an Identity Continuation
   Assertion when TravelSaaS crosses to BookingRAS under a new subject.

4.  The Identity Continuation Assertion

4.1.  Token Type and Media Type

   The Identity Continuation Assertion is identified as follows:

   Name:        Identity Continuation Assertion
   Token type:  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-continuation
   JOSE typ:    oauth-identity-continuation+jwt

   The assertion is a JWT [RFC7519].  Its JSON Object Signing and
   Encryption (JOSE) header typ value oauth-identity-continuation+jwt
   corresponds to the media type application/oauth-identity-
   continuation+jwt (Section 14).  The IdP MUST verify the typ header to
   ensure that the JWT is processed as an Identity Continuation
   Assertion and is not confused with any other JWT, as recommended by
   [RFC8725].

4.2.  Claims

   The following is a non-normative example of the Identity Continuation
   Assertion claim set:

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.expenses.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
       "sub": "expense-service"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-current-actor-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000500,
     "exp": 1710000800,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-01"
   }

   The claims have the following meanings and requirements:

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The Chain Authority that issued the assertion.  The
      IdP MUST verify that this issuer is a trusted Chain Authority for
      this tenant and that the assertion was signed with a key
      authorized for that issuer.

   aud:  REQUIRED.  It MUST be a single string containing the issuer
      identifier of the Continuation Authorization Server being asked to
      issue the onward grant.  The IdP MUST validate aud using exact
      string matching against its issuer identifier.  A token endpoint
      URL that differs from the issuer identifier MUST NOT be used as
      this claim's value.

   identity_continuation_handle:  REQUIRED.  The continuation handle
      being continued.  It binds the request to a specific hop of a
      chain: the IdP resolves the chain, the parent hop, the user, and
      the audience-local subject from it.  See Section 5.

   act:  REQUIRED.  The current actor presenting the Token Exchange
      request, encoded as a single-level act claim per [RFC8693].  The
      act object contains a REQUIRED iss and a REQUIRED sub, both non-
      empty strings.  Additional members MAY carry further identity
      attributes of the actor; a recipient MUST ignore members it does
      not understand, and the members exp, nbf, aud, scope, cnf, and
      nested act MUST NOT be present.  Additional members are non-
      authoritative: the IdP MUST NOT use them for identity comparison,
      continuation authorization, lineage construction, or grant
      issuance.  The IdP MUST reject an assertion whose act does not
      conform to this schema.  The assertion names no other actor: all
      lineage is constructed by the IdP (Section 10), and nested act
      values are reserved for a future extension (Appendix E).

      Where an offline attenuated stack delegated to the current actor,
      the Chain Authority MAY retain audit evidence for that offline
      segment separately from the assertion, for example per-hop issuer
      receipts [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] or actor-signed hop
      proofs [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs]; such evidence SHOULD
      remain in the control plane (Section 13).

   cnf:  REQUIRED.  A confirmation claim [RFC7800] that binds the
      assertion to the key of the actor that will present it to the IdP.
      cnf MUST contain exactly one confirmation method: jkt, the JWK
      SHA-256 thumbprint [RFC7638] of the key the actor proves
      possession of using Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)
      [RFC9449].  Issuance-time binding and live proof of possession are
      specified in Section 7.4.

   iat, exp:  REQUIRED.  The assertion lifetime MUST be short. exp MUST
      be after iat, and exp - iat MUST be no more than 300 seconds; see
      Section 9.  The bound accommodates issuance-to-presentation
      latency while keeping the replay-state retention window small.

   jti:  REQUIRED.  A unique identifier used by the IdP for replay
      detection.  The value MUST be unique per issuer (iss) within the
      assertion validity window.

   The assertion MUST NOT contain a top-level sub, auth_time, acr, amr,
   or sid claim (Section 9, rule 8).  The IdP obtains the user and root
   authentication context from the root-chain envelope indexed by
   identity_continuation_handle, and identifies the current actor from
   the act claim and the actor_token; the assertion is evidence, not a
   second source of identity.

   The assertion MAY carry other top-level claims.  A recipient MUST
   ignore claims it does not understand, and additional claims are non-
   authoritative: the IdP MUST NOT use them in validation, continuation
   authorization, or grant issuance.

4.3.  Claims That Are Deliberately Excluded

   The following Token Exchange request values MUST NOT be conveyed by
   the Identity Continuation Assertion:

   audience (target)
   resource
   scope
   authorization_details
   requested_token_type

   These stay in the Token Exchange request so that direct and chained
   calls have an identical shape (Section 7).  The assertion's aud claim
   is different: it identifies the Continuation Authorization Server
   that consumes the assertion, not the requested target audience.

4.4.  Assertion Issuance and Key Binding

   A presenting actor obtains an Identity Continuation Assertion from
   the Chain Authority for a given identity_continuation_handle
   (Section 8).  The Chain Authority:

   *  MUST bind the assertion to the presenting actor's key via cnf
      (Section 4.2), and MUST do so only after establishing that the
      presenting actor controls that key and is the actor recorded in
      the act claim; and

   *  MUST issue only to a presenting actor in the trust domain of the
      Resource Authorization Server whose acceptance it attests.  It can
      satisfy these requirements only for actors it can directly
      authenticate, so each trust domain operates or designates its own
      Chain Authority.  A Chain Authority MUST NOT issue for an actor in
      another trust domain unless an explicit tenant configuration names
      that actor and its keys and authorizes the cross-domain
      relationship; absent that, keeping issuance in-domain is what
      prevents a handle-holding party from continuing outside the RAS-
      acceptance-triggered path.

   How the actor authenticates to the Chain Authority and proves control
   of its key is deployment-specific; it is typically the workload's
   existing mutually authenticated credential.  The issuance interaction
   itself (endpoint, request parameters, and responses) is out of scope
   for this document; a standard issuance profile is an open item
   (Appendix E).  An assertion whose cnf is not bound to the presenting
   actor's key is not presentable, because the IdP requires live proof
   of possession of the confirmed key (Section 7.4).

4.5.  Chain-Context Provenance

   The mechanism used to transport chain context between workloads is
   deployment-specific, but its security properties are not.  A Chain
   Authority MUST issue an Identity Continuation Assertion only after
   establishing all of the following:

   1.  the identity_continuation_handle was received through an
       authenticated, confidential, and integrity-protected channel from
       a participant in the chain (its root actor, a continuer, or a
       workload conveying context on their behalf), or was obtained from
       equivalent authenticated state held by the Chain Authority;

   2.  the presenting actor is authorized under Chain Authority policy
       to continue the chain;

   3.  the presenting actor controls the key placed in cnf; and

   4.  the actor placed in act is the authenticated presenting actor
       (Section 4.2), and, where an offline attenuated stack delegated
       to that actor, the Chain Authority has validated the delegation
       artifact's integrity and delegation rules (for example, an actor-
       signed hop-proof chain [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs])
       before issuing.

   Possession of identity_continuation_handle alone is insufficient to
   satisfy these requirements, and values received as propagated
   context, including actor history or requested authority, MUST NOT
   override the root-chain envelope.  The transport MAY carry
   deployment-specific hints, but the assertion's authoritative content
   is only the claims defined in Section 4.2, and the IdP applies its
   own root-chain and current-actor policy at the exchange.

   Because a Transaction Token (Section 4.6) is not a workload
   credential and may be replayed within its lifetime, a Chain Authority
   MUST NOT treat receipt of one as sufficient to issue.  It MUST
   additionally authenticate the requesting workload independently,
   verify proof of possession of the key it will place in cnf, and bind
   that actor to the transaction.  Independent of the carrier, the Chain
   Authority MUST verify that the presented handle is the one the
   domain's RAS-bound state currently associates with a transaction the
   requesting workload is actively serving, not merely a handle the
   workload once observed; a handle disconnected from a current
   transaction MUST be rejected.  It MUST recheck against authoritative
   (not cached) Resource Authorization Server state that the underlying
   authorization is still active, so that a revocation at the Resource
   Authorization Server takes effect within the assertion's own
   lifetime.  A single transaction legitimately fans out to several
   targets, so universal single-use is too strict; instead the Chain
   Authority MUST enforce policy-bounded issuance per (transaction,
   actor), with rate and fan-out limits and audit records, so that one
   replayed Transaction Token cannot mint unbounded assertions.  A
   caller MAY supply a target or purpose hint to bound issuance, but
   such a hint MUST NOT become authoritative over the IdP's target
   decision (Section 9, rule 14).

4.6.  Transaction Token Chain Context

   Within a trust domain, chain context travels inside the domain's
   existing context propagation, typically a Transaction Token
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens].  A Transaction Token Service
   (TTS) derives the current hop's identity_continuation_handle from the
   authorization state the Resource Authorization Server bound at
   acceptance (Section 11) and places it in a namespaced member of the
   token's request context:

   "tctx": {
     "identity_continuation": {
       "iss": "https://idp.example/",
       "tenant": "tenant-123",
       "handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs"
     }
   }

   The identity_continuation object has the following members:

   *  iss (REQUIRED): a string, the issuer identifier of the IdP that
      owns the chain, compared as an exact string (Section 7.4).

   *  handle (REQUIRED): a string, the hop's
      identity_continuation_handle (Section 5).

   *  tenant (REQUIRED unless the issuer serves a single tenant): a
      string identifying the tenant (Section 2); it MAY be omitted only
      where the issuer is single-tenant.

   A recipient MUST ignore members of identity_continuation it does not
   understand.  A message carrying a malformed identity_continuation
   object, or more than one, MUST be treated as carrying no chain
   context rather than proceeding on a guess.

   The requester MUST NOT supply or override tctx.identity_continuation
   through request_details or any client-controlled input; the
   Transaction Token Service populates it solely from bound
   authorization state.  Crucially, the Transaction Token Service MUST
   derive the member from the authorization record bound to the specific
   credential presented on the call it is serving, that is, the access
   token and its confirmed key for that request, and MUST NOT key the
   derivation on a broader identifier such as a session or a subject.
   Otherwise, under concurrent transactions for different users, the
   wrong user's hop could be spliced into a transaction (Section 12.5).
   The Transaction Token is an intra-domain object (Appendix A.2) and
   MUST NOT be accepted outside its trust domain.  A Transaction Token
   is normally forwarded unmodified through the domain's call chain
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens], so tctx.identity_continuation is
   preserved as it propagates.  Where a workload instead requests a
   replacement Transaction Token, a cautioned operation in that
   specification, the Transaction Token Service MUST re-derive
   tctx.identity_continuation into the replacement from the same RAS-
   bound authorization state, so the hop reference remains preserved and
   non-overridable.

   Authorized transaction-chain workloads, including API
   implementations, MAY read identity_continuation_handle from this
   context.  It conveys no authority (Section 5, rule 7), MUST NOT be
   placed in any access token or external authorization claim
   (Section 5, rule 4), MUST NOT be emitted on any external-facing
   surface (response bodies, webhook payloads, error messages, or onward
   calls to non-participants), and SHOULD be excluded from logs and
   traces.  Reading the handle here is not authorization to continue: a
   Chain Authority applies the independent checks of Section 4.5 before
   issuing.

5.  Continuation Handles (identity_continuation_handle)

   An identity_continuation_handle is an opaque, unguessable, IdP-
   generated reference to one hop of a delegation chain.  The IdP
   creates the root hop when it establishes a chain (Section 7.2) and a
   child hop for each successful continuation; each child holds an
   immutable reference to the hop whose handle was presented.

   A chain is therefore a tree.  Sibling continuations that present the
   same handle, including concurrently, create sibling hops, and a hop's
   lineage is the path from that hop to the root, independent of every
   other branch.  From the presented handle the IdP resolves the chain,
   the parent hop, and the correct per-audience subject.

   identity_continuation_handle is a non-bearer reference, closer in
   spirit to a grant identifier than to a token, following the pattern
   of the OpenID Connect sid claim [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout] and the txn
   claim [RFC8417]: opaque, issuer-generated identifiers that index
   server-side state (rule 7).  The IdP embeds it as a claim in each
   continuation-capable ID-JAG (rule 1); the accepting Resource
   Authorization Server binds it to authorization state (Section 11) and
   never lets it reach an access token or the protected API as an
   authorization input, though an authorized workload of that API may
   receive it as internal control-plane context (rule 4; see also
   Section 4.6, Section 13).

   The following rules apply:

   1.  The IdP MUST establish a chain for every direct ID-JAG issuance
       under a continuation-capable governing authorization
       (Section 7.2), and MUST embed a fresh hop reference as the
       identity_continuation_handle claim of the issued ID-JAG, for the
       root hop and for each continuation hop.  Handle values MUST NOT
       be reused across hops.  An ID-JAG that carries the
       identity_continuation_handle claim is continuation-capable.

   2.  identity_continuation_handle MUST contain at least 128 bits of
       entropy, MUST NOT contain user-identifying information, and MUST
       consist of 22 to 256 characters drawn from the base64url alphabet
       (A-Z, a-z, 0-9, -, _).

   3.  identity_continuation_handle appears as a claim in a
       continuation-capable ID-JAG and in intra-domain chain context
       (for example, a Transaction Token, Section 4.6).  It crosses a
       trust boundary only inside an ID-JAG (to the accepting Resource
       Authorization Server) or an Identity Continuation Assertion (to
       the IdP), never as a standalone value.

   4.  identity_continuation_handle MUST NOT appear in an access token
       or in a Resource Server's external authorization claims.
       Authorized transaction-chain workloads MAY observe it in intra-
       domain chain context (Section 4.6), subject to the non-authority,
       confidentiality, and log-suppression rules stated there.  Because
       each hop's handle is distinct and each Resource Authorization
       Server sees only its own hop's value in the ID-JAG it accepts, no
       handle correlates the user across SaaS boundaries (actor lineage
       and timing remain correlation channels; Section 13).

   5.  End-to-end audit correlation is performed at the IdP, which holds
       the hop graph for every chain.  Per-Resource-Server logs use that
       server's own pairwise subject.

   6.  A Resource Authorization Server binds
       identity_continuation_handle to the authorization state it
       establishes (Section 11); Resource Authorization Servers,
       Resource Servers, and Chain Authorities MUST NOT modify the
       value.

   7.  A hop is continuable only after the target Resource Authorization
       Server has accepted and bound its parent ID-JAG, per the hop
       lifecycle of Section 11.1. identity_continuation_handle alone is
       not proof of authorization and MUST NOT be treated as a bearer
       credential; the IdP MUST use it only as a lookup handle for the
       hop, its chain state, subject resolution, and policy evaluation.

   8.  A hop's parent reference is immutable.  The IdP MUST derive
       lineage solely by walking parent references from the presented
       hop to the root, and MUST NOT maintain or extend a single chain-
       wide actor history: concurrent sibling continuations are
       independent branches.

   In deployments that already maintain a delegation or mission
   identifier, the IdP MAY derive hop handles from that identifier
   internally (for example, by a keyed one-way derivation), provided
   every value remains distinct per hop, unguessable, and unlinkable,
   per rules 1, 2, and 8.

5.1.  Handle Freshness and Unlinkability

   Handles are hop-specific by construction: no two hops share a value
   (rule 1), so audiences and branches do not acquire a shared
   identifier for the delegation.  A given handle is still observed by
   every participant on its conveyance path (the party that received it,
   workloads that propagate it, the Chain Authority, and the IdP), so
   unlinkability holds across hops, not within a path, and actor lineage
   and timing remain correlation channels (Section 13).  Handles of a
   revoked chain, or of a hop subtree the IdP has revoked (Section 6),
   fail validation (Section 9, rule 7) at the next exchange.

6.  Chain Lifetime and Revocation

   A chain is continuable only while the IdP considers it active.
   Because every cross-boundary hop is an exchange at the IdP
   (Section 8), the IdP is in the loop at each hop and can stop a chain
   at any point.

   Resolving every continuation against current control-plane state at
   each boundary is the property that makes the chain enforceable: each
   hop is a fresh policy point, not a trust in an artifact minted before
   a decision changed.  Resolution is per-invocation and sits on the
   request path.  Revoking authority at a hop stops all further
   continuation from that hop, and from its subtree, at the next
   continuation check, fail-closed; it does not retroactively invalidate
   ID-JAGs or access tokens already derived downstream, which remain
   valid only for their own short lifetimes, so the revocation window is
   bounded by those lifetimes.  An implementation MAY cache a resolved
   access token for its own audience and scope within that lifetime,
   keyed to the request fingerprint (Section 9); it MUST NOT reuse a
   continuation across audiences or past a revocation check, since a
   cross-audience cache would both bypass this per-boundary enforcement
   and reintroduce the cross-audience correlation the per-audience
   design prevents (Section 13).

   Three distinct lifetimes apply and MUST NOT be conflated.  An ID-
   JAG's exp governs only how long that grant JWT may be redeemed, and
   is short.  The authorization state a Resource Authorization Server
   binds at acceptance (Section 11) has its own local lifetime and
   revocation.  The chain's continuation lifetime is authoritative at
   the IdP and may be much longer than any single ID-JAG's exp; it is
   the lifetime bounded below.

   Every chain has a continuation-capable governing authorization
   (Section 7.2): the server-side consent and policy record that permits
   continuation.  That record has a lifecycle anchor, resolved at
   establishment from the root subject token: the OAuth authorization
   grant behind a refresh token, or the IdP session resolved from a
   session reference (Section 7.2).  The binding is to the server-side
   records, not to a token value: refresh-token rotation does not affect
   a grant-anchored chain, while revocation or expiry of the anchoring
   grant ends every chain rooted in it, and termination of an anchoring
   session ends every chain rooted in that session.  Withdrawal of the
   consent or policy that made the authorization continuation-capable
   likewise ends its chains, even while the anchor itself remains
   active.  A session-anchored chain's lifetime MUST NOT exceed the
   session's, so only grant-anchored chains outlive logout.

   The IdP MUST bound the continuation lifetime of a chain by the
   lifetime of its governing authorization, and MUST reject a
   continuation of an expired chain (Section 9).

   The governing authorization is distinct from the root authentication
   context: auth_time, acr, and amr are fixed at root issuance and
   inherited unchanged by onward grants, and continuation does not
   extend or refresh that context (Section 12.3).

   The IdP MUST be able to revoke a chain, and MUST stop honoring
   continuation for a revoked chain.  Ending the governing authorization
   or its anchor revokes every chain rooted in it: revocation of the
   anchoring grant does so (for example, through a grant management
   interface, or through token revocation [RFC7009] where the server's
   revocation policy revokes the underlying grant, which that
   specification leaves to server policy), as does termination of the
   user's session where the session anchors, or withdrawal of the
   underlying consent or policy.  An IdP MAY additionally revoke an
   individual hop's subtree, stopping continuation along one branch
   while the rest of the chain remains continuable.

   This next-hop enforcement needs no way to reach chain evidence
   already held by intermediate services, the deliberate difference from
   an offline attenuated delegation token whose minted child remains
   usable for its lifetime without contacting an authority.  Access
   tokens already issued by a Resource Authorization Server are governed
   by that server's own revocation mechanisms.

   Revocation is a control-plane capability, but the delegation belongs
   to the user.  For a chain that outlives the establishing session, any
   grant-anchored chain and in particular a durable task chain
   (Section 11.3), the delegation runs unattended after the user has
   consented, so its management surface is not optional: the IdP MUST
   make the chain visible and revocable through a user- or
   administrator-facing interface, presenting its purpose, the root
   context, the chain's hop graph and actor lineage, the targets granted
   so far, and the chain's expiry; MUST support user- or administrator-
   initiated revocation of the chain, and of an individual hop's subtree
   where the IdP offers subtree revocation; and SHOULD notify the
   delegating user or administrator when such a chain is established and
   as it approaches expiry.  For a session-anchored chain, which cannot
   outlive logout, the same surface is RECOMMENDED.  Grant Management
   for OAuth 2.0 [GRANT-MGMT] provides a comparable management model for
   standing grants.

7.  Token Exchange Profile

   An Identity Continuation Assertion is used as the subject_token of an
   OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange request [RFC8693].  A direct request and a
   chained request have the same shape: the client changes only
   subject_token and subject_token_type.  Chain establishment is the
   IdP's act, not a request parameter (Section 7.2).

7.1.  Direct ID-JAG Request

   A direct request, in which the subject token is a normal subject
   token such as an ID Token or refresh token:

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<id_token | refresh_token>
   subject_token_type=<normal-subject-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained-current-actor-credential> (OPTIONAL)
   actor_token_type=<actor-token-type>                       (OPTIONAL)

   On a direct request, actor_token is OPTIONAL (Section 7.2).

7.2.  Establishing a Chain

   A chain is established by the IdP, not requested by the client: the
   party performing the root exchange cannot generally know whether
   downstream services will need to continue the delegation, and
   requiring it to predict would foreclose continuation for the entire
   downstream graph.  The IdP MUST establish a chain for each direct
   exchange in which it issues an ID-JAG under a continuation-capable
   governing authorization (below), and MUST return the root hop's
   handle (Section 7.6); chain state MAY be materialized lazily, on
   first continuation, and the root handle remains resolvable to its
   chain regardless (Section 9, rule 7).  Where the governing
   authorization does not permit continuation, no chain is established
   and no handle is returned; its absence tells the client that the
   delegation is not continuable.  Tenant enablement (Section 7.7) is a
   capability signal and authorizes nothing.

   The chain's properties are not negotiated.  The root subject token
   resolves the chain's lifecycle anchor, and the IdP then locates the
   governing authorization attached to that anchor; the IdP MUST NOT
   establish a chain from a subject token it cannot resolve to an
   anchor.  Three rooting paths are defined:

   *  a refresh token resolves to the OAuth authorization grant it
      belongs to, and the chain is anchored to that grant; only grant-
      anchored chains may outlive the establishing session (Section 6);

   *  an ID Token carrying a sid claim [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout] that
      the IdP resolves to an active session it established for this user
      and client anchors the chain to that session; and

   *  a SAML 2.0 assertion whose authentication statement carries a
      SessionIndex [SAML2.Core] that the IdP resolves to an active
      session it established for this user and presenter likewise
      anchors the chain to that session.

   These correspond to the two functions that subject tokens perform in
   the ID-JAG profile, identity assertion (an ID Token or SAML assertion
   conveying the authenticated subject) and identity continuity (a
   refresh token continuing an existing authorization grant); the
   distinction is implicit in that profile's choice of subject tokens
   rather than stated by it.  Each rooting path anchors the chain to the
   record its function references.  An access token is a resource-
   authorization credential, constructed for presentation to a protected
   resource rather than for identity brokering; it is not an ID-JAG
   subject token and roots nothing here.  All three paths anchor to a
   user; authority not rooted in a user, such as a tenant-wide
   administrative or scheduled workload authorization, has no root here
   and is out of scope for this version (Appendix E).

   A chain is established only where that governing authorization is
   continuation-capable: its consent and policy explicitly permit
   continuation and establish the authorization basis, the continuation
   authorization (the permitted actors or trust domains), the maximum
   actor-chain depth where bounded, and the chain's lifetime and
   revocation behavior, all of which are recorded in the root-chain
   envelope.  These always come from server-side consent and policy
   state, never from token claims.  The IdP consumes sid and
   SessionIndex solely to resolve the session; these values MUST NOT
   appear in assertions or conveyed chain context (Section 13).  An
   unused chain is inert state: its establishment exercises no authority
   beyond what the continuation-capable governing authorization already
   granted.

   When establishing a chain, the IdP MUST determine the root actor: the
   authenticated OAuth client of the direct request, identified through
   the authoritative client-to-actor mapping of Section 7.5.  An
   actor_token is OPTIONAL on a direct request.  If present, it MUST be
   of a type the IdP accepts for continuation and currently valid, MUST
   designate the IdP where its type defines an audience or applicability
   restriction, MUST be sender-constrained to a key whose possession the
   request proves (for example, the request's DPoP proof key), and MUST
   identify the same entity as the authenticated client.  The IdP MUST
   record the root actor in the root hop only after this validation; the
   root actor begins every branch's lineage (Section 10).

   The origin of a chain is commonly a public client, for example a
   command-line agent holding a locally generated key and no
   confidential credential.  The sender-constraining key the chain
   carries forward enters here: it is the root actor's key, a locally
   generated key the client proves possession of with a DPoP proof,
   confirmed in the root exchange.  The assurance of the root actor's
   identity at such an origin is whatever the ID-JAG profile's public-
   client root exchange provides
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]; this profile
   inherits it and does not strengthen it, and how a public client
   bootstraps that root exchange is out of scope here.  Continuation
   from that root is unchanged.

   The IdP embeds the root hop's handle as the
   identity_continuation_handle claim of the issued ID-JAG
   (Section 7.6); the target Resource Authorization Server binds it on
   acceptance (Section 11).

   Whenever the IdP issues a hop, root or continuation, it records for
   that hop the target Resource Authorization Server and the Chain
   Authorities authorized to attest continuation from it (this mapping
   MAY be static, tenant-wide configuration resolved per hop rather than
   stored per hop).  A continuation is accepted only when its Identity
   Continuation Assertion comes from a Chain Authority mapped to the
   accepting Resource Authorization Server's domain (Section 9, rule 6).
   The mapped Chain Authority issues only from accepted, currently-
   active authorization state (Section 11), which is how the IdP relies
   on RAS acceptance without a callback.

   Because the identity_continuation_handle claim is inert to a Resource
   Authorization Server that does not implement this profile, a chain is
   continuable toward a target only if that target's Resource
   Authorization Server actually implements continuation-aware
   processing and binds the hop (Section 11).  Continuability depends on
   that runtime behavior, not on advertisement: advertising the
   continuation grant profile (Section 7.7) is discovery only, letting a
   party learn whether to expect continuation before attempting it.
   Toward a target that only implements the base ID-JAG profile, the
   claim is ignored, the access token is issued, and the hop never
   becomes continuable; a party that needs to know whether onward
   continuation is possible SHOULD consult the target's advertised grant
   profile rather than infer it from a successful exchange.

   Like the continuation exchange (Section 9), root establishment is at-
   least-once: a retry after a lost response MAY establish a second
   chain.  Both chains are bounded by the same consent and policy, and
   an unused chain expires.

7.3.  Chained ID-JAG Request

   A chained request, in which the subject token is an Identity
   Continuation Assertion:

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained-current-actor-credential>
   actor_token_type=<actor-token-type>

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.

   The requested audience, resource, scope, requested_token_type, and
   any authorization_details are supplied by the Token Exchange request
   and never by the assertion (Section 4.3).  Following
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant], audience identifies
   the target Resource Authorization Server and resource ([RFC8693],
   originally defined in [RFC8707]) identifies the protected resource.

   The request MAY also include authorization_details [RFC9396], which
   the ID-JAG profile supports in both the exchange and the issued
   grant; the authorization-basis check (Section 9, rule 14) applies to
   it as to scope.  Client authentication is required on every exchange
   (Section 7.5) and is omitted from the example bodies for brevity.

7.4.  Sender-Constrained Presentation

   The Identity Continuation Assertion is sender-constrained: it is
   bound by cnf to the key of the actor that presents it (Section 4.2).
   This profile uses proof of possession aligned with the direct ID-JAG
   request [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]:

   *  The presenting actor MUST demonstrate live possession of the
      confirmed key by including a DPoP proof JWT [RFC9449] computed
      with that key, carried in the DPoP HTTP header (and therefore not
      in the request body shown above).  The IdP MUST verify that the
      DPoP proof key thumbprint equals the assertion's cnf.jkt, and MUST
      reject a request that does not prove possession of the confirmed
      key.

   *  The Token Exchange request MUST include an actor_token, which
      authenticates the workload identity of the current actor, the
      actor named in the assertion's act claim.  The actor_token MUST
      itself be sender-constrained to the same key confirmed by the
      assertion's cnf.  For a JWT actor token, the IdP MUST verify a
      cnf.jkt value that matches both the assertion and the live proof.
      For an opaque actor token, the IdP MUST obtain the equivalent
      confirmation value from authoritative token metadata, such as a
      token introspection response [RFC7662].  A bearer actor token MUST
      NOT be accepted.  The actor_token MUST be of a type the IdP
      accepts for continuation and MUST be currently valid under that
      type's rules.  Where its type defines an audience or equivalent
      applicability restriction, that restriction MUST designate the
      IdP: a token that a trusted issuer minted for another service is
      not a valid actor_token.  These checks bind the authenticated
      workload identity, the assertion, and the demonstrated key to one
      actor.

   Actor identity comparison is exact: two actor identities denote the
   same entity only if their issuer and subject identifiers are octet-
   for-octet equal.  The IdP MUST apply this comparison when matching
   the actor_token to the act claim and to the authenticated client
   (Section 7.5).  Comparison occurs within the tenant context already
   established for the exchange (Section 9, rules 6 and 10); identities
   from different tenants are never compared equal.

   The onward ID-JAG the IdP issues is itself sender-constrained to the
   same key through its own cnf, using the DPoP-based binding the ID-JAG
   profile defines (Section 10).  This version deliberately standardizes
   a single mandatory-to-implement confirmation method for
   interoperability.  A mutual-TLS-bound variant [RFC8705] is not
   specified: the ID-JAG profile currently defines only DPoP-based
   binding, and a different confirmation method in the onward grant
   would make the target Resource Authorization Server validate the
   onward grant's confirmation differently from a directly issued ID-
   JAG.  The presenting actor proves possession of the key again when it
   exchanges the ID-JAG at the target Resource Authorization Server,
   exactly as for a directly issued ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant].

   The key binding is established per assertion at issuance.  A workload
   that rotates its key obtains its next assertion, and an actor token,
   bound to the new key; rotation takes effect at the next issuance and
   requires no coordination with the IdP.

7.5.  Client Identity and Authentication

   The party presenting a continuation exchange is an OAuth client of
   the IdP, and the current actor is that client:

   *  The current actor MUST authenticate as an OAuth client.  As with
      the direct ID-JAG exchange, this profile is intended for
      confidential clients.

   *  The IdP MUST verify that the authenticated client and the current
      actor are the same entity, comparing the client's actor identity
      (its iss and sub pair) with the actor_token and the act claim
      using the exact comparison of Section 7.4.  The IdP learns the
      client's actor identity from an authoritative mapping, typically
      recorded in the client registration or resolvable from a shared
      client identifier namespace such as Client ID Metadata Documents.
      The mapping is a trust anchor (Section 12): the IdP MUST use only
      mapping sources it trusts as authoritative for the tenant, and
      MUST NOT accept a self-asserted actor identity whose binding to
      the actor's trust domain it has not verified.

   *  A deployment MAY use a single sender-constrained JWT as both the
      client assertion and the actor_token where the requirements of
      both roles coincide: [RFC7523] requires such a JWT's sub to be the
      workload's client_id, and the IdP MUST be configured to accept the
      workload identity issuer as an authorized issuer of client
      assertions for that client.  Otherwise the client authenticates
      with its registered method and additionally presents the
      actor_token.

   The client_id of the onward ID-JAG is the identifier under which the
   current actor is registered for the target Resource Authorization
   Server.  The ID-JAG profile
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] defines how the IdP
   knows that identifier (an out-of-band per-RAS mapping, or a shared
   namespace such as Client ID Metadata Documents) and requires the
   grant's client_id to match the client that redeems it.  A continuing
   workload therefore needs a client registration, or a resolvable
   client identity, at each target it will reach; in this document's
   examples the workload identifier doubles as that client identifier.

7.6.  Continuation Handle Delivery

   The IdP delivers the hop reference as the
   identity_continuation_handle claim of the issued ID-JAG (Section 5,
   rule 1; Section 10), not as a separate Token Exchange response
   parameter.  Each hop's handle is distinct and its parent reference is
   immutable (Section 5, rules 1 and 8).  The accepting Resource
   Authorization Server binds it to authorization state (Section 11);
   the current domain then surfaces it to continuers through intra-
   domain chain context (Section 4.6).

   There is no advisory chain-expiry response parameter.  Chain lifetime
   is authoritative at the IdP (Section 6); a deployment that needs
   advance warning of expiry conveys it through authenticated task or
   authorization state, an optional ID-JAG claim, or a management API,
   not through the Token Exchange response.

7.7.  Authorization Server Metadata

   An IdP that supports this profile SHOULD signal it in its
   authorization server metadata [RFC8414] with the following parameter:

   identity_continuation_supported:  OPTIONAL.  Boolean value indicating
      that the IdP accepts Identity Continuation Assertions of the
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-continuation subject
      token type and issues continuation-capable ID-JAGs carrying the
      identity_continuation_handle claim.  Default false.

   A Resource Authorization Server advertises separately, by listing the
   grant profile urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag-continuation
   in its authorization_grant_profiles_supported
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant], that it recognizes a
   continuation-capable ID-JAG and binds the
   identity_continuation_handle claim to authorization state
   (Section 11).  This value is distinct from the base ID-JAG grant
   profile, which signals only ordinary ID-JAG processing and no handle
   binding.  Because a continuation-capable ID-JAG is an ID-JAG, a
   Resource Authorization Server that advertises
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag-continuation MUST also
   advertise the base urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag profile
   and the urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer grant type on
   which ID-JAG depends
   ([I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]).  These are
   distinct capabilities: the IdP signal is about issuing and accepting
   continuation, the Resource Authorization Server profile is about
   binding it.

   Absent these signals, a party learns of support out of band or by
   attempting an exchange.

8.  Same-IdP Core Flow

   The canonical same-IdP SaaS-to-SaaS flow proceeds as follows.  Each
   additional cross-boundary hop (for example, TravelRAS to BookingRAS)
   restarts at step 3's Transaction Token Service derivation in the new
   domain and again proceeds through step 7, each continuation performed
   by the current-domain workload after its domain's Resource
   Authorization Server has bound the parent hop.

   1.  ExpenseApp authenticates the user and requests an ID-JAG for
       ExpenseRAS via Token Exchange.

   2.  The IdP establishes a chain (Section 7.2), records the root-chain
       envelope (including the Chain Authorities mapped to ExpenseRAS),
       and issues the ID-JAG carrying the root hop's
       identity_continuation_handle claim (H0).

   3.  ExpenseApp redeems the ID-JAG at ExpenseRAS for an access token;
       ExpenseRAS validates the ID-JAG and binds H0 to that
       authorization state (Section 11), and ExpenseApp calls
       ExpenseAPI.  The Expense domain's Transaction Token Service
       derives H0 into intra-domain chain context (Section 4.6); no
       audience-local subject crosses the SaaS boundary.

   4.  To reach TravelRAS, ExpenseService, the current Expense-domain
       workload, obtains an Identity Continuation Assertion for H0 from
       the Expense-domain Chain Authority (Section 4.4), bound to its
       own key.

   5.  ExpenseService presents the assertion to the IdP as the
       subject_token, requesting an ID-JAG for TravelRAS.

   6.  The IdP validates the request (Section 9), resolves the user's
       TravelRAS subject, records a new hop, and issues the TravelRAS
       ID-JAG carrying a fresh handle (H1) with an IdP-constructed act
       chain (expense-service acting for expense-app).

   7.  ExpenseService redeems the ID-JAG at TravelRAS; TravelRAS binds
       H1 and issues the access token.  TravelService then continues
       from H1 to BookingRAS by repeating from step 3 in the Travel
       domain.

9.  IdP Validation for the Continuation Exchange

   Before issuing an onward ID-JAG, the IdP MUST reject the Token
   Exchange request unless all of the following hold.  The rules are a
   conjunction with no implied evaluation order, and one rule's input
   can come from another's resolution: for a Chain Authority trusted
   through a federation mechanism (Section 12), the tenant of rule 6 is
   resolved from the handle of rule 7.

   1.   the request contains exactly one each of grant_type,
        subject_token, subject_token_type, requested_token_type,
        actor_token, and actor_token_type; the grant_type is
        urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange, and the
        subject_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-
        continuation;

   2.   the request contains exactly one audience parameter and exactly
        one resource parameter;

   3.   the assertion is a JWT containing exactly one value for each
        required claim defined in Section 4.2; iss, aud,
        identity_continuation_handle, and jti are non-empty strings; act
        and cnf are JSON objects, cnf containing exactly one
        confirmation method (Section 4.2); iat and exp are JSON numbers
        representing NumericDate values; and the JOSE typ header value
        is oauth-identity-continuation+jwt;

   4.   the assertion signature validates using a key authorized for the
        assertion issuer, and the JOSE alg is an asymmetric signature
        algorithm on the IdP's configured allowlist (the none algorithm
        MUST be rejected; see Section 12.10);

   5.   the assertion aud exactly matches the IdP's issuer identifier;

   6.   the assertion iss is a Chain Authority the IdP trusts for this
        tenant and that is mapped to the presented hop's target Resource
        Authorization Server (Section 7.2); a tenant-trusted Chain
        Authority not mapped to that hop MUST be rejected.  This mapping
        is what makes an accepted hop continuable (Section 11).  That
        Chain Authority and the request's actor_token issuer (rule 10)
        MUST be a pairing the IdP authorizes for the tenant
        (Section 12.8);

   7.   identity_continuation_handle identifies a known hop that the
        target Resource Authorization Server has accepted and bound
        (Section 11), on an unexpired, unrevoked chain, where neither
        the hop itself nor any ancestor hop's subtree has been
        individually revoked (Section 6), and the actor lineage the
        continuation would produce, after same-actor collapse
        (Section 10), is within any actor-chain depth bound set by
        policy; the bound measures distinct lineage entries, not hops,
        so a workload continuing from its own hop does not consume
        depth;

   8.   the assertion does not contain a top-level sub, auth_time, acr,
        amr, or sid claim, nor an audience, resource, scope,
        authorization_details, or requested_token_type claim
        (Section 4.3, Section 7.2);

   9.   the assertion's act claim is present, conforms to the schema of
        Section 4.2, and identifies the current actor;

   10.  the request and the current actor are bound together:

        *  the request is authenticated as an OAuth client that is the
           same entity as the current actor (Section 7.5);

        *  the actor_token was issued by a workload identity issuer the
           IdP trusts for the current actor's trust domain and tenant,
           is of an accepted type and currently valid, designates the
           IdP where its type defines an audience or applicability
           restriction, and authenticates the current actor;

        *  the actor_token is sender-constrained to the key confirmed by
           the assertion's cnf (Section 7.4);

        *  that actor is the actor named in act; and

        *  that actor is permitted by the chain's continuation
           authorization (Section 7.2) to continue from the presented
           hop;

   11.  the request proves possession of the key confirmed by cnf with a
        DPoP proof [RFC9449] matching cnf.jkt (Section 7.4);

   12.  jti has not been successfully consumed before for the assertion
        issuer;

   13.  iat and exp are valid NumericDate values, iat is not in the
        future beyond the IdP's permitted clock skew, exp is after iat,
        the assertion has not expired, and the assertion lifetime is no
        more than 300 seconds;

   14.  the requested audience and resource, every requested scope, and
        any requested authorization details [RFC9396] are authorized by
        the root-chain envelope's authorization basis, evaluated at the
        time of the request, and by IdP policy for the current actor
        (containment for authorization details is type-specific and
        deployment-defined, unlike the set containment of scope);

   15.  the requested output token type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
        type:id-jag; and

   16.  the IdP can resolve, for the requested audience, both the
        audience-local subject and the current actor's client identifier
        (Section 7.5).

   After all other validation succeeds, the IdP MUST, as part of issuing
   the onward grant, atomically verify that the tuple (iss, jti) has not
   been consumed and record it as consumed, bound to a canonical request
   fingerprint: the assertion's iss and jti, the requested audience and
   resource, the requested scope as an order-independent set and any
   authorization_details, the current actor identity, and the confirmed
   key.  A request carries exactly one audience and one resource (rule
   2).

   The (iss, jti) record moves through the states RESERVED, ISSUED, and
   FAILED.  The IdP MUST NOT reserve the tuple (RESERVED) before target
   and policy validation (rules 14 and 16) succeed, so a request that
   fails earlier does not consume it and MAY be corrected and retried.
   Once reserved, the IdP MUST NOT release the tuple for a different
   request: a retry presenting the same fingerprint recovers the
   persisted ISSUED result, while any request presenting a different
   fingerprint under the same (iss, jti) MUST be rejected.  At most one
   concurrent exchange for a tuple may reach ISSUED.  The IdP MUST
   retain a consumed tuple until at least the assertion's exp, allowing
   for permitted clock skew.

   Replay uniqueness is the (iss, jti) tuple itself and MUST NOT be
   partitioned by a tenant value the assertion does not
   cryptographically bind; a tenant carried only as an unbound index
   could otherwise permit cross-tenant replay.

   These requirements imply per-chain state and, within the assertion
   validity window, strongly consistent replay state at the IdP; the
   300-second lifetime bounds the replay-state retention window.  Hop
   state is bounded differently: the depth bound of rule 7 does not
   limit sibling fan-out or self-continuation, so deployments SHOULD
   apply operational limits (for example, continuation rate or hop count
   per chain) and SHOULD prune hop state when its chain expires or is
   revoked.

   A client that does not receive the response MAY re-present the same
   assertion to recover the persisted ISSUED result while the IdP still
   retains it (above); otherwise, because the assertion is single-use,
   it obtains a fresh assertion from its Chain Authority and repeats the
   exchange, so Chain Authority issuance SHOULD be inexpensive relative
   to the exchange itself.  The retry path is at-least-once: a retry
   after a lost response mints a second, equivalent grant (short-lived,
   sender-constrained to the same key, and bounded by the same
   authorization basis) and a second hop, so it confers no additional
   authority.  Equivalent grants do not deduplicate the application
   operations they authorize; operation idempotency remains the
   application's concern.  A Chain Authority SHOULD account for retry-
   driven re-issuance separately from the fan-out limits it applies per
   (transaction, actor) (Section 4.5), so that legitimate retries are
   not starved by a fan-out cap and repeated "lost response" claims
   cannot evade one.

   On success, the IdP records the continuation as a new pending hop
   whose immutable parent is the presented handle, resolves the
   audience-local subject for the requested RAS, and issues the onward
   ID-JAG with that sub.  The onward ID-JAG MUST carry the new hop's
   identity_continuation_handle claim (Section 5, rule 1); the target
   Resource Authorization Server binds it on acceptance (Section 11).

   If validation fails, the IdP MUST return an OAuth error response as
   defined by [RFC8693] and [RFC6749].  The IdP SHOULD use
   invalid_request for malformed or internally inconsistent requests,
   including unsupported parameter cardinality, the wrong
   subject_token_type, and an invalid or impermissible actor_token (rule
   10), which is an unacceptable token per [RFC8693].  A request that
   fails proof of possession (rule 11) SHOULD receive invalid_dpop_proof
   [RFC9449] where DPoP was used.  For requests outside the chain's
   authority, the IdP SHOULD use invalid_target for an audience and
   resource pair, invalid_scope for a scope, and
   invalid_authorization_details [RFC9396] for an authorization_details
   value, in each case one not permitted by the authorization basis or
   by IdP policy for the current actor (rule 14).

   A presented identity_continuation_handle that is unknown, expired,
   revoked, or otherwise not continuable (rule 7) makes the
   subject_token unacceptable, and the IdP returns invalid_request as
   Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693] requires.  Retrying with the same handle
   cannot succeed; continuing requires a handle on a live branch or a
   new root delegation, which typically requires the user.
   invalid_target, invalid_scope, and invalid_authorization_details
   signal instead that this particular request falls outside the chain's
   authority while the chain remains continuable, so an unattended
   client can abandon only the current request.  Because invalid_request
   also covers malformed requests, the error code alone does not
   distinguish a dead hop from a protocol error; a continuation-specific
   error code that would restore that distinction is an open item
   (Appendix E).

10.  Onward ID-JAG

   The following is a non-normative example of the onward ID-JAG issued
   by the IdP:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.travel.example/",
     "sub": "travel-local-subject",

     "client_id": "expense-service",
     "resource": "https://api.travel.example/",
     "scope": "trips.read",

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
       "sub": "expense-service",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
         "sub": "expense-app"
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-current-actor-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000025,
     "exp": 1710000325,
     "jti": "idjag-travel-01"
   }

   The act chain in an onward ID-JAG is constructed by the IdP, not
   copied from the assertion: it is the newly authenticated current
   actor placed atop the presented hop's lineage, the actors the IdP
   itself authenticated along that hop's parent path (Section 5, rule
   8).  Sibling branches never contribute to one another's lineage, and
   any actor-chain depth bound set by policy applies to the resulting
   chain (Section 9, rule 7).  An actor identical to the lineage entry
   it would be placed atop appears once: a workload continuing from its
   own hop does not repeat in the chain.  Collapse affects only the
   constructed act chain; the IdP's hop record retains each
   continuation.  Policy MAY limit the lineage depth exposed to a given
   audience, subject to audit requirements (Section 13).

   Nested lineage in an onward ID-JAG is therefore authenticated, not
   self-reported.  In this example the chain is expense-service
   (authenticated at this continuation to Travel) acting for a
   delegation rooted by expense-app (authenticated at root issuance).  A
   workload that was delegated to only over an offline attenuated
   segment, and never performed an exchange, appears in deployment audit
   records rather than in lineage; actor receipts
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts] and actor-signed hop proofs
   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs] provide a verifiable form for
   such records.

   TravelRAS is a continuation-aware Resource Authorization Server
   (Section 11): it validates the ID-JAG per
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant], applies its local
   authorization policy, issues the access token, and binds the
   identity_continuation_handle claim to that authorization state, from
   which its domain's Transaction Token Service and Chain Authority
   later derive continuation.  The handle never enters the access token
   or reaches TravelAPI (Section 5, rule 4).  The client_id is the
   current actor's client identifier for the target Resource
   Authorization Server (Section 7.5); in this document's examples the
   workload identifier serves as both the client identifier and the
   act.sub value, so the two match.

11.  Continuation-Aware Resource Authorization Server

   The continuation extension of this section is required only of a
   Resource Authorization Server at a hop from which the chain
   continues.  A Resource Authorization Server that is only ever a
   terminal endpoint, where no continuation occurs, needs no
   continuation support: it processes the ID-JAG as an ordinary ID-JAG
   per [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] and ignores any
   identity_continuation_handle claim it carries.  This confines the
   deployment cost of continuation to the Resource Authorization Servers
   that are actually continued from; the target of a final hop is an
   ordinary ID-JAG Resource Authorization Server.

   A continuation-aware Resource Authorization Server, one that
   implements this extension and advertises the continuation grant
   profile (Section 7.7), MUST, on accepting a continuation-capable ID-
   JAG:

   1.  validate the ID-JAG per
       [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant];

   2.  authenticate the client presenting it;

   3.  verify the sender constraint, that is, proof of possession of the
       confirmed key;

   4.  apply its local authorization policy;

   5.  issue the resulting access token; and

   6.  bind identity_continuation_handle to the authorization state it
       establishes, recording whether continuation is permitted.

   Binding and access-token issuance MUST be atomic: a hop is bound only
   when a token was actually issued.  Redemption is idempotent with
   respect to the hop: the ID-JAG specification
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] permits a client to
   redeem the same ID-JAG more than once, and every such redemption MUST
   bind to the same single hop authorization record rather than create a
   new one.  The Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT place
   identity_continuation_handle in the access token or in any external
   authorization claim (Section 5, rule 4), and it MUST NOT let the
   handle reach the protected API as an authorization input.  It makes
   the binding available only to its own trust domain's Transaction
   Token Service or Chain Authority, and only privately (Section 4.6);
   an authorized intra-domain workload, including an API implementation
   acting as a workload, MAY receive the handle as control-plane context
   there.  A non-normative internal record:

   authorization:
     idp_issuer: https://idp.example/
     tenant: tenant-123
     local_subject: expense-local-subject
     client: expense-app
     continuation_handle: H0
     continuation_allowed: true
     effective_authorization: expenses.read
     confirmation_key: <thumbprint>
     status: active

11.1.  Hop Activation

   RAS acceptance activates a hop.  The IdP records a hop as pending
   when it issues the ID-JAG carrying the handle; the hop becomes
   continuable only after the target Resource Authorization Server has
   accepted and bound it as above.  There is no Resource-Authorization-
   Server-to-IdP callback: a valid Identity Continuation Assertion from
   a Chain Authority mapped to that hop's target Resource Authorization
   Server (Section 7.2) is the evidence of acceptance the IdP relies on.
   A Chain Authority issues only from accepted, currently-active
   authorization state, so a handle copied from an issued-but-rejected
   ID-JAG is not continuable: no mapped Chain Authority will attest it.
   RAS-acceptance provenance is therefore exactly a trust in the mapped
   Chain Authority, an audit and integrity property within an honest
   domain rather than an IdP-verifiable proof of acceptance
   (Section 12).

   A mapped Chain Authority is therefore a mandatory component on the
   continuation path in this profile: continuation requires its
   assertion, so if no mapped Chain Authority is available the IdP has
   no acceptance evidence and the continuation fails closed.  There is
   no bypass or degraded mode; a chain that cannot obtain an assertion
   simply cannot be continued.  A continuation path without a Chain
   Authority is the recipient-bound direct profile of Appendix E, a
   distinct profile rather than a partial deployment of this one.

   This document refers to these three conditions as PENDING, ACCEPTED,
   and CONTINUABLE.  They live at different authorities: PENDING is a
   hop the IdP has issued, ACCEPTED is active authorization state the
   Resource Authorization Server holds, and CONTINUABLE is not a stored
   state but a condition the IdP evaluates at each continuation request,
   from a fresh assertion by the hop's mapped Chain Authority.  The IdP
   does not permanently transition a hop to CONTINUABLE after a first
   assertion; each request is evaluated on its own.

11.2.  A Gate, Not a Ceiling

   RAS acceptance is a continuation gate, not an authorization ceiling.
   The IdP continues to evaluate every downstream target solely against
   the root-chain envelope and current-actor policy (Section 9, rule
   14); a Resource Authorization Server's local effective authorization
   neither narrows nor widens what a later continuation may obtain.
   Cross-domain scope vocabularies are not generally comparable; RAS-
   derived narrowing, if ever defined, would require signed constraints
   and an explicit intersection model (an open item, Appendix E).

11.3.  Durable Task Authorization

   An unattended or scheduled continuation MUST root in durable
   authorization state created when a Resource Authorization Server
   accepts a root ID-JAG, not in a handle stored by a scheduler or other
   component.  Concretely, the platform workload obtains a root ID-JAG
   for a platform Resource Authorization Server (for example a task
   service), redeems it there, and that Resource Authorization Server
   binds the root hop to durable task-authorization state as in
   Section 11.  The scheduler thereafter holds only a task identifier,
   never the identity_continuation_handle; the platform's Transaction
   Token Service derives the handle from authenticated task state when a
   run begins (Section 4.6).  Theft of the scheduler's stored task
   identifier therefore yields no continuable credential: the handle is
   not stored there, and continuation still requires a valid assertion
   from a mapped Chain Authority (Section 11) bound to the run's
   authenticated actor.

12.  Security Considerations

   This profile assumes TLS-protected channels between all parties and
   an IdP that correctly holds the per-audience subject map and the
   root-chain envelope.  The general OAuth security guidance of
   [RFC9700] applies.  The adversaries specifically considered are:

   *  a network or on-path attacker observing or replaying a Token
      Exchange request, addressed by sender-constraining the assertion
      and single-use consumption (Section 7.4, Section 12.2);

   *  a compromised or curious intermediate workload that holds
      propagated chain context and attempts to broaden authority,
      impersonate the user, or inflate the authentication context,
      bounded by the root-chain envelope and the actor binding
      (Section 12.3, Section 12.4);

   *  a compromised Chain Authority, which can issue assertions only for
      chains it is trusted for, and whose assertions still require an
      authenticated, permitted actor (Section 12.6);

   *  a party that can influence the client-to-actor mapping
      (Section 7.5), which binds client authentication to actor identity
      and, on a direct request without an actor_token, is the sole
      authenticator of the root actor (Section 7.2);

   *  a malicious or curious Resource Server or Resource Authorization
      Server attempting to correlate the user across boundaries,
      addressed by keeping identity_continuation_handle out of access
      tokens and external authorization claims and by its per-hop, per-
      domain freshness, so no handle links a user across SaaS boundaries
      (Section 13);

   *  a faulty or compromised Transaction Token Service that derives the
      wrong hop into a transaction, or a domain that co-locates the
      Resource Authorization Server, Transaction Token Service, and
      Chain Authority as one operator, collapsing the checks the model
      treats as independent (Section 12.5).

   The subsections below address each in turn.

12.1.  Sender Constraint and Proof of Possession

   The Identity Continuation Assertion MUST NOT be accepted as a bearer
   token [RFC7800]: presentation requires live proof of possession of
   the cnf key, bound to the authenticated current actor (Section 7.4).
   A stolen assertion or actor token is therefore unusable without the
   confirmed private key, and the short single-use lifetime
   (Section 12.2) bounds the window even for the key holder.

12.2.  Short Lifetime and Replay

   The 300-second lifetime ceiling and the atomic single-use consumption
   of (iss, jti) are enforced at validation (Section 9, rule 13 and the
   consume-and-record step following the numbered rules).  Because the
   assertion is consumed only at the IdP and never by a Resource Server,
   its blast radius on replay is confined to the continuation exchange.

12.3.  Root Authentication Context

   The authoritative auth_time, acr, and amr values come only from the
   root-chain envelope recorded by the IdP.  They are not accepted from
   the Chain Authority.  Continuing a chain MUST NOT extend, strengthen,
   or refresh that context, and the IdP MUST copy it unchanged into an
   onward ID-JAG when the output profile requires those claims.

12.4.  Envelope Enforcement and Offline Attenuation

   The root-chain envelope is the authorization ceiling for a chain.
   The IdP enforces that the requested target and scopes are permitted
   by the envelope's authorization basis (Section 9, rule 14), which
   prevents a compromised intermediate actor from broadening the chain
   beyond what the root delegation and its governing consent and policy
   authorize.

   Where an offline attenuated delegation stack feeds an Identity
   Continuation Assertion, that stack's own specification provides
   monotonic attenuation, bounded depth, and parent linkage along the
   offline segment (for example,
   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization]).  The Chain Authority
   validates the segment before issuing (Section 4.5); the IdP enforces
   only the root-chain envelope.

   The assertion is deliberately target-agnostic (Section 4.3): within
   the envelope and IdP policy, the presenting actor chooses the target
   at exchange time, so a compromised permitted actor can select among
   all authorities the ceiling allows during the assertion's lifetime.
   This is a tradeoff for the uniform request shape; optional issuance-
   time narrowing constraints are an open item (Appendix E).

   A related risk for a multi-user intermediary is association error
   rather than broadening: a workload attaching the wrong handle to a
   request would continue the wrong user's chain, within that chain's
   envelope.  This model constrains that risk but does not eliminate it:
   a continuing workload does not select a handle and cannot supply or
   override one, so the risk is removed from the workload and
   concentrated in the Transaction Token Service, whose correct behavior
   becomes load-bearing (Section 12.5).  The handle used is whatever the
   accepting domain's Transaction Token Service derived from the
   authorization state its own Resource Authorization Server bound for
   the inbound transaction (Section 11, Section 4.6).  A carrier other
   than a Transaction Token MAY be used only if it provides the
   equivalent property: the handle is derived from RAS-bound
   authorization state, keyed to the credential presented on the current
   call, and is not supplied or overridable by the requester.

12.5.  Trust in the Transaction Token Service

   The model relocates the wrong-handle-association risk from the
   continuing workload to the Transaction Token Service, so a
   Transaction Token Service that derives tctx.identity_continuation
   from the wrong authorization record splices one user's hop into
   another's transaction, and every downstream check (Chain Authority,
   IdP) still sees a well-formed continuation.  The Transaction Token
   Service therefore MUST key the derivation to the specific credential
   presented on the call being served, not to a session or subject
   (Section 4.6), and SHOULD be monitored for anomalous derivation
   patterns.

   A single operator MAY run the Resource Authorization Server,
   Transaction Token Service, and Chain Authority for a domain; the
   Chain Authority definition (Section 2) permits this.  Doing so
   concentrates three checks the model treats as independent, the RAS
   acceptance, the derivation, and the attestation, in one component, so
   a bug or compromise there can record a rejected hop as accepted,
   derive it, and attest it with no second party in the path.  The root-
   chain envelope and IdP actor policy remain the effective bound in
   that event, but deployments SHOULD separate these roles, or
   independently audit the binding-to-attestation path, where the
   assurance matters.

12.6.  Trust in the Chain Authority

   The IdP MUST accept assertions only from Chain Authorities it trusts
   for the relevant tenant (Section 9, rule 6).  A compromised Chain
   Authority can issue assertions only for chains it is trusted for, and
   a continuation still requires an authenticated actor permitted by the
   chain's continuation authorization (Section 9, rule 10), within the
   ceiling of Section 12.4.  Deployments SHOULD scope Chain Authority
   trust as narrowly as practical and SHOULD monitor for anomalous
   continuation patterns. identity_continuation_handle confidentiality
   is defense in depth, not an authorization factor.

   How the IdP establishes that trust (a Chain Authority's issuer
   identifier, its authorized signing keys, and its tenant scope) is out
   of band and deployment-specific, statically or through a federation
   or trust-framework mechanism, as for any issuer whose assertions an
   Authorization Server consumes [RFC7523].  Because the assertion
   carries no subject (Section 4.2), such a mechanism authorizes the
   Chain Authority against the owning authority resolved from
   identity_continuation_handle, not against a subject carried in the
   assertion.

12.7.  Trust in Actor Token Issuers

   Validation rule 10 depends on the actor_token authenticating the
   current actor, which makes the issuer of that token a trust anchor of
   equal weight to the Chain Authority.  The IdP MUST accept actor
   tokens only from workload identity issuers it trusts for the actor's
   trust domain and tenant, scoped and established exactly as it scopes
   and establishes Chain Authority trust (a workload identity system
   such as the WIMSE architecture [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch] can serve as the
   federation mechanism).  An actor token from an untrusted or out-of-
   scope issuer MUST be rejected regardless of the validity of the
   accompanying assertion.

12.8.  Conjunctive Trust and Issuer Pairing

   A legitimate continuation requires several trust anchors to agree,
   and no one of them suffices.  For each anchor the IdP MUST know its
   issuer identifier, its authorized signing keys, and its tenant and
   trust-domain scope, established out of band as for any issuer whose
   assertions an Authorization Server consumes [RFC7523]:

   *  the Chain Authority mapped to the presented hop's target Resource
      Authorization Server, which attests the chain-to-actor transition
      (Section 9, rule 6);

   *  the workload identity issuer trusted for the current actor's trust
      domain, which authenticates the actor through the actor_token
      (Section 9, rule 10);

   *  live proof of possession of the confirmed key (Section 9, rule
      11); and

   *  the IdP's own root-chain envelope and current-actor policy
      (Section 9, rule 14).

   Trust in these anchors is not transitive across them.  The IdP MUST
   record, per tenant, which (Chain Authority, workload identity issuer)
   pairings may combine, and MUST reject a continuation whose Chain
   Authority and actor_token issuer are not an authorized pairing even
   when each is independently trusted; otherwise an actor authenticated
   by one domain's issuer could be spliced onto a transition attested by
   an unrelated domain's Chain Authority.

   The anchors MAY be operated by one party; this is an expected
   deployment shape, but its blast radius should be understood:

    +==============+=====================+===========================+
    | Compromised  | What it yields      | What still bounds it      |
    +==============+=====================+===========================+
    | Chain        | Attests transitions | Still needs a live,       |
    | Authority    | for hops it is      | permitted, proof-of-      |
    | alone        | trusted for         | possession actor;         |
    |              |                     | envelope-bounded          |
    +--------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
    | Actor-token  | Mints actor tokens  | Still needs a valid       |
    | issuer alone | for its domain's    | mapped Chain Authority    |
    |              | actors              | assertion for the         |
    |              |                     | specific hop and live     |
    |              |                     | proof; envelope-bounded   |
    +--------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
    | Chain        | Defeats the         | Target, scope, and        |
    | Authority +  | "authorized actor   | subject remain bounded by |
    | actor issuer | for this chain"     | the envelope, evaluated   |
    | (paired or   | gate; can fabricate | per request at the IdP    |
    | co-located)  | a continuation for  |                           |
    |              | any hop the Chain   |                           |
    |              | Authority is        |                           |
    |              | trusted for         |                           |
    +--------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
    | RAS + TTS +  | Can record a        | Envelope-bounded; SHOULD  |
    | Chain        | rejected hop as     | separate these roles or   |
    | Authority    | accepted, derive    | independently audit the   |
    | (co-located, | it, and attest it,  | acceptance-to-attestation |
    | Section      | with no independent | path where assurance      |
    | 12.5)        | party in the        | matters                   |
    |              | acceptance path     |                           |
    +--------------+---------------------+---------------------------+

                                 Table 2

   No single-anchor compromise, and no whole-domain compromise, yields
   authority beyond the root-chain envelope, which the IdP evaluates on
   every continuation.  Concentrating anchors in one operator trades
   away the defense in depth the conjunction otherwise provides.

12.9.  Actor Chain Integrity

   Lineage in an onward ID-JAG is IdP-authenticated, never self-reported
   (Section 10): an assertion names only the current actor, and the IdP
   MUST reject an assertion whose act names anyone else (Section 9, rule
   9).  Actors of an offline attenuated segment appear in the evidence
   layer (Section 10) rather than in lineage; asserting a verified own-
   domain segment is reserved for a future extension (Appendix E).

12.10.  Token, Type, and Algorithm Confusion

   The IdP MUST verify the JOSE typ header value oauth-identity-
   continuation+jwt and MUST NOT process an Identity Continuation
   Assertion as any other kind of JWT, in accordance with [RFC8725].
   The IdP MUST reject an assertion whose JOSE alg header is none, and
   MUST restrict accepted algorithms to a configured allowlist of
   asymmetric signature algorithms.  Symmetric (MAC) algorithms MUST NOT
   be accepted.  The IdP MUST select the verification key from its trust
   configuration for the assertion iss.  A kid header parameter MAY
   select among verification keys already configured for that issuer.
   The IdP MUST NOT use an untrusted jku, x5u, embedded jwk, or other
   assertion-supplied key material to establish trust or retrieve a
   verification key.  General OAuth security guidance in [RFC9700]
   applies.

13.  Privacy Considerations

   An identity_continuation_handle is observed by the participants of a
   single hop: the client that received the ID-JAG (the handle is a
   claim of that ID-JAG), the accepting Resource Authorization Server
   that validates it, that domain's Transaction Token Service and Chain
   Authority, and the IdP.  It never reaches an access token, an
   external authorization claim, or the protected API as an
   authorization input (Section 5, rule 4); an authorized API workload
   may nonetheless receive it as internal control-plane context
   (Section 4.6).  Because each hop's handle is distinct and each
   Resource Authorization Server sees only its own hop's value and
   resolves only its own pairwise subject, neither a Resource Server nor
   a Resource Authorization Server can correlate the user across SaaS
   boundaries from what it holds.

   This property does not make the complete chain unlinkable.  The IdP
   necessarily correlates the chain, and workloads, Chain Authorities,
   or other control-plane participants that receive the same
   identity_continuation_handle can correlate their observations of that
   delegation.  In particular, the actor chain carried in each onward
   ID-JAG names the participating workloads, so colluding audiences can
   correlate a transaction from actor lineage and timing alone,
   regardless of how identity_continuation_handle is handled.
   Deployments requiring unlinkability across audiences weigh the audit
   value of deep actor lineage against this correlation channel and MAY
   limit the nested lineage exposed to each audience, subject to their
   audit requirements.  Deployments SHOULD limit disclosure of
   identity_continuation_handle to participants that require it to
   continue or administer the chain.

   The content and entropy constraints of Section 5, rule 2, keep an
   identity_continuation_handle from revealing the user or being
   guessed.

   Continuation handles are hop-specific by construction (Section 5.1),
   so audiences and branches do not share a correlatable identifier.  A
   workload co-located with a Resource Server that receives chain
   context alongside a request (Section 4.6) is, for that data, a
   control-plane participant subject to the disclosure limits above.

14.  IANA Considerations

14.1.  OAuth URI Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following value in the "OAuth URI"
   registry established by [RFC6755] and used for token type identifiers
   by [RFC8693].

   URN:  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:identity-continuation

   Common Name:  Token type URI for the Identity Continuation Assertion

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document, Section 4.1

   IANA is also requested to register the following grant-profile value
   in the same registry.

   URN:  urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag-continuation

   Common Name:  Grant profile identifier for a continuation-capable ID-
      JAG, whose accepting Resource Authorization Server binds the
      identity_continuation_handle claim to authorization state

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document, Section 7.7, Section 11

14.2.  Media Type Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following media type in the "Media
   Types" registry, in the manner described in [RFC6838], corresponding
   to the JOSE typ header value oauth-identity-continuation+jwt.

   Type name:  application

   Subtype name:  oauth-identity-continuation+jwt

   Required parameters:  N/A

   Optional parameters:  N/A

   Encoding considerations:  binary; an Identity Continuation Assertion
      is a JWT [RFC7519], which is a series of base64url-encoded values
      (some of which may be empty) separated by period ('.') characters.

   Security considerations:  See Section 12 of this document.

   Interoperability considerations:  N/A

   Published specification:  This document, Section 4.1

   Applications that use this media type:  Applications using OAuth 2.0
      Token Exchange [RFC8693] to perform identity continuation across
      SaaS boundaries.

   Fragment identifier considerations:  N/A

   Additional information:
      Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A
      Magic number(s): N/A
      File extension(s): N/A
      Macintosh file type code(s): N/A

   Person & email address to contact for further information:  Karl
      McGuinness (public@karlmcguinness.com)

   Intended usage:  COMMON

   Restrictions on usage:  N/A

   Author:  Karl McGuinness

   Change controller:  IETF

14.3.  JSON Web Token Claims Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following claim in the "JSON Web
   Token Claims" registry established by [RFC7519].

   Claim Name:  identity_continuation_handle

   Claim Description:  An opaque, IdP-generated reference to one hop of
      a delegation chain, used to correlate a continuation to its chain
      and parent hop and to resolve the per-audience subject.  This
      claim appears only in an ID-JAG or intra-domain chain context and
      MUST NOT be placed in an access token or a Resource Server's
      external authorization claims (Section 5, rules 3 and 4).

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This document, Section 5

14.4.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

   IANA is requested to register the following value in the "OAuth
   Authorization Server Metadata" registry established by [RFC8414].

   Metadata Name:  identity_continuation_supported

   Metadata Description:  Boolean value indicating support for the
      Identity Continuation Assertion profile

   Change Controller:  IESG

   Specification Document(s):  This document, Section 7.7

   Note: The token type URI urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   referenced by this document is registered by
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] and is not registered
   here.

   Note: The authorization_grant_profiles_supported metadata parameter
   and the base urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag value
   referenced by this document are defined and registered by
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] and are not
   registered here; this document registers only the
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag-continuation value.

15.  References

15.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]
              Parecki, A., McGuinness, K., and B. Campbell, "Identity
              Assertion JWT Authorization Grant", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-
              grant-04, 21 May 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant-04>.

   [OIDC.FrontChannelLogout]
              OpenID Foundation, "OpenID Connect Front-Channel Logout
              1.0", <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
              frontchannel-1_0.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7523>.

   [RFC7638]  Jones, M. and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Key (JWK)
              Thumbprint", RFC 7638, DOI 10.17487/RFC7638, September
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7638>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7662>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8707>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

   [SAML2.Core]
              OASIS, "Assertions and Protocols for the OASIS Security
              Assertion Markup Language (SAML) V2.0", March 2005,
              <https://docs.oasis-open.org/security/saml/v2.0/saml-core-
              2.0-os.pdf>.

15.2.  Informative References

   [GRANT-MGMT]
              OpenID Foundation, "Grant Management for OAuth 2.0",
              <https://openid.net/specs/oauth-v2-grant-management.html>.

   [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile]
              Fletcher, G., Kasselman, P., and S. O'Dell, "Transaction
              Token Authorization Grant Profile for OAuth Identity and
              Authorization Chaining", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile-02, 6
              July 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile-02>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining]
              Schwenkschuster, A., Kasselman, P., Burgin, K., Jenkins,
              M. J., Campbell, B., and A. Parecki, "OAuth Identity and
              Authorization Chaining Across Domains", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-identity-chaining-17, 19
              July 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-oauth-identity-chaining-17>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens]
              Tulshibagwale, A., Fletcher, G., and P. Kasselman,
              "Transaction Tokens", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft,
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens-09, 6 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              transaction-tokens-09>.

   [I-D.ietf-wimse-arch]
              Salowey, J. A., Rosomakho, Y., and H. Tschofenig,
              "Workload Identity in a Multi System Environment (WIMSE)
              Architecture", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              ietf-wimse-arch-08, 6 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-wimse-
              arch-08>.

   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization]
              Ruochen, L., Wang, W., Liu, P. C., and T. Li, "OAuth 2.0
              Delegated Authorization", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-li-oauth-delegated-authorization-03, 24 July
              2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-li-
              oauth-delegated-authorization-03>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor-Signed Hop Proofs", Work in
              Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-actor-
              proofs-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-proofs-00>.

   [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts]
              McGuinness, K., "OAuth Actor Receipts for Delegation
              Provenance", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts-00, 4 July 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-actor-receipts-00>.

   [OIDC.Core]
              OpenID Foundation, "OpenID Connect Core 1.0",
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html>.

   [RFC6755]  Campbell, B. and H. Tschofenig, "An IETF URN Sub-Namespace
              for OAuth", RFC 6755, DOI 10.17487/RFC6755, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6755>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7009]  Lodderstedt, T., Ed., Dronia, S., and M. Scurtescu, "OAuth
              2.0 Token Revocation", RFC 7009, DOI 10.17487/RFC7009,
              August 2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7009>.

   [RFC8417]  Hunt, P., Ed., Jones, M., Denniss, W., and M. Ansari,
              "Security Event Token (SET)", RFC 8417,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8417, July 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8417>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8705>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

Appendix A.  Design Rationale

   This appendix is non-normative.  It explains why the Identity
   Continuation Assertion is a distinct subject token and why a cross-
   boundary hop cannot reuse an existing token.  Both trace to per-
   boundary trust: each target trusts only the IdP to name the user and
   scope authority, and where subjects are pairwise only the IdP can
   mint the next audience's subject (Section 1.1, Section 1.2).

A.1.  Relationship to ID-JAG

   This document profiles both the issuance and the acceptance of a
   continuation-capable ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] (Section 5, rule 1;
   Section 11).

   The Identity Continuation Assertion is nonetheless a distinct
   artifact, not itself an ID-JAG.  It is the input to a Token Exchange,
   a subject_token whose aud is the IdP and which carries no top-level
   sub, whereas an ID-JAG is the output: an authorization grant whose
   aud is the target Resource Authorization Server and which carries the
   resolved per-audience sub and, when continuation-capable, the
   identity_continuation_handle claim.  Presenting the assertion to a
   Resource Authorization Server is meaningless; it is the input that
   produces a chained ID-JAG.  Viewed by function, the assertion is a
   further identity-continuity credential (Section 7.2): where a refresh
   token continues a grant for its own client, the assertion continues
   the delegation for downstream actors.

A.2.  Why Not a Transaction Token

   A Transaction Token [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens] is the
   closest neighbor, a short-lived signed JWT carrying delegation
   context, often issued by a service that could also be the Chain
   Authority, but it sits at a different layer.  It is intra-domain: its
   aud is a trust domain that it "MUST NOT be accepted outside", it is
   normally forwarded unmodified within the domain, and its sub is
   domain-local.  The assertion instead crosses to the IdP, is consumed
   only there, is single-use, and carries neither the target subject nor
   the request context a Transaction Token carries.  It is derived from
   a Transaction Token at the boundary, not a profile of one.

A.3.  Why Not a Cross-Domain Propagation Token

   This profile does use offline propagation between hops wherever it is
   sound: that is the offline attenuated delegation layer, used when the
   subject does not change (Section 3).  It cannot serve the boundary
   where the subject changes: re-subjecting is a mint only the IdP can
   perform, not an attenuation a holder can carry (Section 1.2).  A
   source-minted token cannot compute the next audience's pairwise
   subject; only the IdP holds the map (Section 1.1).  The receiver
   trusts the IdP, not the source issuer, to name the user; obtaining a
   grant from an already-trusted authority is the model of
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining] (for example
   [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile]).  An offline token
   remains usable without consulting the IdP, whereas a continuation
   checks current IdP state at every hop (Section 6).  And a stolen
   assertion permits only an envelope-bounded IdP exchange (Section 12).
   Built honestly, such a token collapses into this profile.  Direct
   propagation fits only where all domains share one global subject,
   mutually trust each other's issuers (for example, a single SPIFFE-
   style trust domain), and accept the loss of mid-chain revocation, a
   different problem from the pairwise-subject case this profile
   addresses.  Delegated Authorization
   [I-D.li-oauth-delegated-authorization], whose client-issued tokens
   carry no subject at all, composes with this profile as the intra-
   domain layer (Section 3) and stops exactly where re-subjecting
   begins.

A.4.  Alternative Topology: Resolution at the Target

   A pull topology was evaluated: the workload presents its reference to
   the target RAS under a new grant type; the RAS resolves it at the IdP
   over a back channel [RFC7662].  Both topologies require continuation-
   aware Resource Authorization Servers (Section 11): under either one
   the target must recognize the continuation profile and bind the hop.
   They differ in what else the target must build.  Pull requires every
   target to implement a new grant type and a per-request RAS-to-IdP
   back channel, and exposes the reference to the target directly.  Push
   requires no new grant type and no per-request back channel: the
   target consumes the continuation-capable ID-JAG through its existing
   ID-JAG grant path (extended only by the handle binding of
   Section 11), and the mapped Chain Authority supplies the acceptance
   evidence without the IdP calling back.  This document standardizes
   push for that reason; pull remains a candidate companion profile over
   the same envelope.

A.5.  Why a Signed Assertion Rather Than a Bare Grant Type

   A bare grant type would present the handle under client
   authentication, with a sender-constrained actor_token and live proof
   of possession, but without an assertion JWT or Chain Authority.  It
   loses little where the continuing domain has no offline segment and
   no domain-local policy.  The signed assertion was retained for what
   the Chain Authority attests first-hand and the IdP cannot: validating
   an intra-domain offline segment before the boundary, and vouching for
   its own workloads' identity and keys.  Because the Chain Authority
   does not see the target of the eventual exchange (Section 4.3), it
   gates only continuation, never target or scope, which are solely the
   IdP's to authorize; with all lineage IdP-constructed (Section 10),
   the assertion carries exactly what the Chain Authority can attest
   first-hand, the authenticated current actor and its key binding.
   Where a deployment needs neither capability, the Chain Authority
   reduces to a co-signature over the handle and the current actor, and
   the bare grant type remains a candidate simplification.

Appendix B.  Worked Example (Same-IdP)

   This appendix is non-normative.  This and the following appendices
   cover the three deployment shapes this profile serves: interactive
   SaaS-to-SaaS chaining (this appendix), an unattended background agent
   (Appendix C), and a gateway topology with dynamically determined
   upstream audiences (Appendix D).  This appendix walks the canonical
   flow of Section 8 end-to-end for a single user: ExpenseApp invokes
   ExpenseSaaS; ExpenseService, the workload handling that request,
   calls TravelAPI to reach TravelSaaS; and TravelService, the
   TravelSaaS workload that handles that call, in turn calls BookingAPI
   to complete the itinerary.  All parties trust one enterprise IdP at
   https://idp.example/.

   Proof of possession uses DPoP.  JWTs are shown as decoded payloads;
   JOSE headers and signatures are omitted.  Client authentication is
   required on every exchange (Section 7.5) and is omitted from all
   example requests in these appendices for brevity.  The values are
   consistent with the examples in Section 4.2, Section 11, Section 4.6,
   and Section 10.

   identity_continuation_handle never crosses a trust boundary except
   inside an ID-JAG or an Identity Continuation Assertion (Section 5,
   rule 3): it does not appear in a Token Exchange response or an HTTP
   request field, and ExpenseApp, ExpenseService, and TravelService
   never exchange it directly with one another.  Within a domain it
   travels only in that domain's own chain context.  Each accepting
   Resource Authorization Server binds the handle it receives to the
   authorization state it establishes (Section 11), and each domain's
   Transaction Token Service derives the handle from that bound state
   for its own workloads (Section 4.6).

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +==============+=============================+======================+
   |Name          |Value                        |Description           |
   +==============+=============================+======================+
   |User          |(none)                       |The human,            |
   |              |                             |authenticated once at |
   |              |                             |the IdP.              |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |IdP           |https://idp.example/         |Trust anchor and      |
   |              |                             |Continuation          |
   |              |                             |Authorization Server. |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |ExpenseApp    |expense-app                  |User-facing           |
   |              |                             |application; first-   |
   |              |                             |hop client.           |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |ExpenseSaaS   |https://expenses.example/    |First SaaS the user   |
   |              |                             |invokes.              |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |ExpenseRAS    |https://ras.expenses.example/|Resource              |
   |              |                             |Authorization Server  |
   |              |                             |for ExpenseAPI; binds |
   |              |                             |each hop it accepts   |
   |              |                             |to its authorization  |
   |              |                             |state (Section 11).   |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |ExpenseAPI    |https://api.expenses.example/|Protected resource    |
   |              |                             |behind ExpenseRAS.    |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |ExpenseService|expense-service              |ExpenseSaaS workload  |
   |              |                             |that continues the    |
   |              |                             |chain and calls       |
   |              |                             |TravelAPI.            |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Expense TTS   |https://tts.expenses.example/|ExpenseSaaS's         |
   |              |                             |Transaction Token     |
   |              |                             |Service; derives the  |
   |              |                             |handle ExpenseRAS     |
   |              |                             |bound and issues      |
   |              |                             |ExpenseService's      |
   |              |                             |local Transaction     |
   |              |                             |Token (Section 4.6).  |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Expense Chain |https://ca.expenses.example/ |ExpenseSaaS's Chain   |
   |Authority     |                             |Authority; issues the |
   |              |                             |Identity Continuation |
   |              |                             |Assertion that        |
   |              |                             |continues a hop       |
   |              |                             |ExpenseRAS accepted.  |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |TravelSaaS    |https://travel.example/      |Downstream SaaS.      |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |TravelRAS     |https://ras.travel.example/  |Resource              |
   |              |                             |Authorization Server  |
   |              |                             |for TravelAPI; binds  |
   |              |                             |each hop it accepts   |
   |              |                             |to its authorization  |
   |              |                             |state (Section 11).   |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |TravelAPI     |https://api.travel.example/  |Protected resource    |
   |              |                             |behind TravelRAS.     |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |TravelService |travel-service               |TravelSaaS workload   |
   |              |                             |that processes the    |
   |              |                             |inbound request and   |
   |              |                             |calls BookingAPI.     |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Travel TTS    |https://tts.travel.example/  |TravelSaaS's          |
   |              |                             |Transaction Token     |
   |              |                             |Service; derives the  |
   |              |                             |handle TravelRAS      |
   |              |                             |bound and issues      |
   |              |                             |TravelService's local |
   |              |                             |Transaction Token     |
   |              |                             |(Section 4.6).        |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Travel Chain  |https://ca.travel.example/   |TravelSaaS's Chain    |
   |Authority     |                             |Authority; issues the |
   |              |                             |Identity Continuation |
   |              |                             |Assertion that        |
   |              |                             |continues a hop       |
   |              |                             |TravelRAS accepted.   |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |BookingSaaS   |https://booking.example/     |Third SaaS, reached   |
   |              |                             |in the third hop.     |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |BookingRAS    |https://ras.booking.example/ |Resource              |
   |              |                             |Authorization Server  |
   |              |                             |for BookingAPI;       |
   |              |                             |terminal in this      |
   |              |                             |chain, so an ordinary |
   |              |                             |ID-JAG Resource       |
   |              |                             |Authorization Server  |
   |              |                             |that needs no         |
   |              |                             |continuation support  |
   |              |                             |(Section 11).         |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |BookingAPI    |https://api.booking.example/ |Protected resource    |
   |              |                             |behind BookingRAS.    |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |PartnerSaaS   |https://partner.example/     |SaaS outside the      |
   |              |                             |trust circle          |
   |              |                             |(Appendix B.7).       |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Handles       |kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs (H0,  |Continuation handles; |
   |              |root hop),                   |one per hop, each a   |
   |              |Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj (H1,  |claim of its own      |
   |              |Travel hop),                 |continuation-capable  |
   |              |Ht6mZ2pQe8VrKx4NcWy1Jd (H2,  |ID-JAG (Section 5).   |
   |              |Booking hop)                 |                      |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+
   |Subjects      |expense-local-subject,       |The user's pairwise   |
   |              |travel-local-subject,        |subject at            |
   |              |booking-local-subject        |ExpenseRAS,           |
   |              |                             |TravelRAS, and        |
   |              |                             |BookingRAS,           |
   |              |                             |respectively.         |
   +--------------+-----------------------------+----------------------+

                                  Table 3

   At a glance, the message flow is:

   User authenticates once at the IdP.

   ExpenseApp -> IdP: exchange ID Token
   IdP -> ExpenseApp: ID-JAG(ExpenseRAS) carrying H0
   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseRAS: ID-JAG
   ExpenseRAS -> ExpenseApp: AT1 (ExpenseRAS binds H0)
   ExpenseApp -> ExpenseAPI: AT1
   Expense TTS -> ExpenseService: Transaction Token
     (tctx.identity_continuation = H0)

   ExpenseService -> Expense Chain Authority: request assertion for H0
   Expense Chain Authority -> ExpenseService:
     Identity Continuation Assertion
   ExpenseService -> IdP: assertion exchange + DPoP
   IdP -> ExpenseService: ID-JAG(TravelRAS) carrying H1
   ExpenseService -> TravelRAS: ID-JAG
   TravelRAS -> ExpenseService: AT2 (TravelRAS binds H1)
   ExpenseService -> TravelAPI: AT2
   Travel TTS -> TravelService: Transaction Token
     (tctx.identity_continuation = H1)

   TravelService -> Travel Chain Authority: request assertion for H1
   Travel Chain Authority -> TravelService:
     Identity Continuation Assertion
   TravelService -> IdP: assertion exchange + DPoP
   IdP -> TravelService: ID-JAG(BookingRAS) carrying H2
   TravelService -> BookingRAS: ID-JAG
   BookingRAS -> TravelService: AT3 (ordinary RAS, no binding)
   TravelService -> BookingAPI: AT3

   The subsections below detail each step; Appendix B.6 then repeats the
   continuation pattern for a third hop to BookingRAS, this time from
   within TravelSaaS.

B.1.  First Hop: Direct ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS

   ExpenseApp holds an ID Token for the authenticated user and exchanges
   it at the IdP for an ID-JAG scoped to ExpenseRAS.  The request is
   DPoP-bound to ExpenseApp's key:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the expense-app key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.expenses.example/
   resource=https://api.expenses.example/
   scope=expenses.read
   subject_token=<id_token>
   subject_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token
   actor_token=<sender-constrained expense-app credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The IdP authenticates the user from the ID Token, resolves the
   anchoring session from its sid (Section 7.2), and verifies that
   ExpenseApp's actor credential is constrained to the DPoP key.  The
   authorization attached to that session is continuation-capable:
   existing user consent and enterprise policy permit continuation,
   authorize the immediate Expense target and the later Travel and
   Booking targets, and designate expense-service (to continue to
   Travel) and travel-service (to continue to Booking) as the permitted
   continuers, so the IdP establishes a chain (Section 7.2).  It records
   the following target entries in the root-chain envelope:

   (https://ras.expenses.example/, https://api.expenses.example/)
       permitted scopes: expenses.read

   (https://ras.travel.example/, https://api.travel.example/)
       permitted scopes: trips.read

   (https://ras.booking.example/, https://api.booking.example/)
       permitted scopes: stays.book

   The envelope also records the continuation authorization, the
   governing authorization, and the chain's expiry; the root exchange
   does not authorize the later targets merely by requesting the first
   (Section 7.2).  A deployment whose onward targets are not knowable at
   establishment records the ceiling without enumeration and evaluates
   each target at continuation time (Section 9, rule 14).

   The IdP creates a fresh root hop, H0, for this chain and embeds it as
   a claim of the ID-JAG it is about to issue (Section 5, rule 1); the
   hop is PENDING until a Resource Authorization Server accepts it
   (Section 11).  The Token Exchange response carries no continuation-
   specific member: the handle travels only inside the ID-JAG.

   {
     "access_token": "<ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS>",
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "expires_in": 300
   }

   The decoded ID-JAG for ExpenseRAS carries the user's ExpenseRAS-local
   subject and the root hop's handle:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.expenses.example/",
     "sub": "expense-local-subject",

     "client_id": "expense-app",
     "resource": "https://api.expenses.example/",
     "scope": "expenses.read",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs",

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-expense-app-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000005,
     "exp": 1710000305,
     "jti": "idjag-expense-01"
   }

B.2.  ExpenseRAS Acceptance and the Expense-Domain Chain Context

   ExpenseApp exchanges this ID-JAG at ExpenseRAS for an access token
   (AT1), exactly as for any ID-JAG
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] (not shown), except
   that ExpenseRAS also recognizes the continuation grant profile and
   processes identity_continuation_handle (Section 11).  ExpenseRAS
   validates the ID-JAG, authenticates ExpenseApp, verifies the DPoP
   proof, and applies its local policy; only if every check and the
   access-token issuance itself succeed does it atomically bind H0 to
   the authorization state behind AT1, moving the hop from PENDING to
   ACCEPTED.  A hop that never reaches ACCEPTED, for example one copied
   from an ID-JAG that ExpenseRAS rejected, is not usable: no Chain
   Authority attests a hop that its Resource Authorization Server never
   accepted.

   ExpenseRAS keeps this association in a private, own-domain record; it
   is never serialized into AT1, an external authorization claim, or
   anything ExpenseAPI's callers observe:

   {
     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs",
     "status": "ACCEPTED",
     "authorization_state": "at1-authz-2f9c",
     "client_id": "expense-app",
     "bound_at": 1710000010
   }

   ExpenseApp calls ExpenseAPI with AT1.  The Expense TTS, ExpenseSaaS's
   own Transaction Token Service, resolves AT1 against the record
   ExpenseRAS just created over their shared, own-domain interface
   (Section 11), derives H0 from it, and issues a local Transaction
   Token for ExpenseService, the workload that will complete the
   request:

   {
     "iss": "https://tts.expenses.example/",
     "aud": "https://expenses.example/",
     "sub": "expense-local-subject",
     "txn": "txn-expense-88f2",
     "scope": "expense-report:complete",
     "req_wl": "expense-api",

     "tctx": {
       "identity_continuation": {
         "iss": "https://idp.example/",
         "tenant": "tenant-123",
         "handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs"
       }
     },

     "iat": 1710000012,
     "exp": 1710000072,
     "jti": "tt-expense-0007"
   }

   The tctx object is the Transaction Token's namespaced context
   extension point; identity_continuation is the member this profile
   defines within it (Section 4.6). iss and tenant name the IdP and
   tenant whose chain state the handle indexes, the same pair a Chain
   Authority needs to address the right token endpoint and apply the
   right tenant-scoped policy when it later issues an assertion; handle
   is the opaque hop reference itself.  The Expense TTS mints this token
   for the https://expenses.example/ trust domain, not for any audience
   outside it (Appendix A.2): as usual for a Transaction Token
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens], a further ExpenseSaaS workload
   that receives it forwards this same token unmodified on its next
   internal call, carrying tctx.identity_continuation forward unchanged;
   only where a workload requests a replacement token does the
   Transaction Token Service re-derive the member.  No HTTP request
   field and no Token Exchange response parameter carries H0; its only
   cross-workload representations are this Transaction Token claim
   inside ExpenseSaaS, and the ID-JAG and Identity Continuation
   Assertion that cross a trust boundary (Section 5, rule 3).

B.3.  Obtaining the Identity Continuation Assertion

   ExpenseService needs to call TravelSaaS to complete the request.  It
   requests an Identity Continuation Assertion from
   https://ca.expenses.example/, ExpenseSaaS's own Chain Authority,
   presenting the identity_continuation_handle carried in its
   Transaction Token and proving control of its key so the Chain
   Authority can bind cnf to it (Section 4.4).  The Chain Authority is
   authorized to attest continuation from H0 because ExpenseRAS, the
   Resource Authorization Server that accepted it, belongs to this Chain
   Authority's domain, and the IdP's per-hop authority map designates
   this Chain Authority for that domain (Section 7.2); a Chain Authority
   never attests a hop accepted by another domain's Resource
   Authorization Server.  The Chain Authority returns:

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.expenses.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "kW4uJ8pTe2NxA6rQvD1zYs",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
       "sub": "expense-service"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-expense-service-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000020,
     "exp": 1710000200,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-01"
   }

B.4.  Chained Exchange for the TravelRAS ID-JAG

   ExpenseService presents the assertion to the IdP as the
   subject_token, DPoP-bound to its own key:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the expense-service key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.travel.example/
   resource=https://api.travel.example/
   scope=trips.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained expense-service credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.  The IdP runs the checks of Section 9:
   the DPoP key matches both the assertion's cnf.jkt and the actor
   token's key confirmation, expense-service is the actor named in act,
   H0 is CONTINUABLE, and the requested TravelRAS, TravelAPI, and
   trips.read values match the Travel target entry in the root-chain
   envelope.  The IdP does not call ExpenseRAS back to confirm
   acceptance: the valid assertion from ExpenseSaaS's mapped Chain
   Authority, https://ca.expenses.example/, an authorized issuer for
   H0's domain, is itself the evidence the IdP relies on that ExpenseRAS
   reached ACCEPTED state for H0; that evidence is what makes H0
   CONTINUABLE (Section 11).

   The IdP then resolves the user's TravelRAS-local subject, creates a
   fresh hop H1 whose immutable parent is H0, and returns:

   {
     "access_token": "<ID-JAG for TravelRAS>",
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "expires_in": 300
   }

   The decoded ID-JAG for TravelRAS carries H1 and the newly constructed
   act chain (Section 10): expense-service, authenticated at this
   exchange, placed atop the root actor expense-app. travel-service has
   not yet performed an exchange, so it is not part of the lineage:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.travel.example/",
     "sub": "travel-local-subject",

     "client_id": "expense-service",
     "resource": "https://api.travel.example/",
     "scope": "trips.read",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
       "sub": "expense-service",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
         "sub": "expense-app"
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-expense-service-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000025,
     "exp": 1710000325,
     "jti": "idjag-travel-01"
   }

B.5.  TravelRAS Acceptance and the Travel-Domain Chain Context

   ExpenseService exchanges the TravelRAS ID-JAG at TravelRAS for an
   access token (AT2), presenting a fresh DPoP proof with the same
   expense-service key.  TravelRAS recognizes the continuation grant
   profile just as ExpenseRAS did: it validates the ID-JAG,
   authenticates ExpenseService, and, on success, atomically binds H1 to
   the authorization state behind AT2, exactly as Appendix B.2 describes
   for ExpenseRAS and H0.

   ExpenseService calls TravelAPI with AT2.  The Travel TTS derives H1
   from that bound state and issues a local Transaction Token for
   TravelService, the TravelSaaS workload that receives the request:

   {
     "iss": "https://tts.travel.example/",
     "aud": "https://travel.example/",
     "sub": "travel-local-subject",
     "txn": "txn-travel-3a04",
     "scope": "trip:process",
     "req_wl": "travel-api",

     "tctx": {
       "identity_continuation": {
         "iss": "https://idp.example/",
         "tenant": "tenant-123",
         "handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj"
       }
     },

     "iat": 1710000032,
     "exp": 1710000092,
     "jti": "tt-travel-0004"
   }

   This Transaction Token stays inside TravelSaaS, minted for the
   https://travel.example/ trust domain, mirroring Appendix B.2.
   tctx.identity_continuation carries the same iss and tenant as
   ExpenseSaaS's did, because both hops are rooted at the same IdP and
   tenant; only handle differs, from H0 to H1.  The value that changes
   hop to hop is the handle, not the routing information around it.

B.6.  Third Hop: TravelService Continues to BookingRAS

   Completing the itinerary requires a reservation at BookingSaaS
   (https://booking.example/), whose API https://api.booking.example/
   sits behind https://ras.booking.example/. TravelService, processing
   the inbound request whose Transaction Token carries H1, requests an
   Identity Continuation Assertion from https://ca.travel.example/,
   TravelSaaS's own Chain Authority, authorized for H1 because TravelRAS
   accepted it (Section 7.2), exactly as ExpenseService did in
   Appendix B.3:

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.travel.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Uc9fB3mHs5LdK7gEnX2wRj",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "travel-service"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-travel-service-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000040,
     "exp": 1710000340,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-02"
   }

   TravelService exchanges the assertion, DPoP-bound to its own key, for
   an ID-JAG with audience=https://ras.booking.example/,
   resource=https://api.booking.example/, and scope=stays.book, all
   within the envelope's Booking target entry.  The IdP creates a fresh
   hop H2 whose immutable parent is H1 and constructs the onward act
   chain (Section 10): travel-service, authenticated at this exchange,
   placed atop the presented hop's lineage (expense-service, then
   expense-app):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.booking.example/",
     "sub": "booking-local-subject",

     "client_id": "travel-service",
     "resource": "https://api.booking.example/",
     "scope": "stays.book",

     "auth_time": 1710000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Ht6mZ2pQe8VrKx4NcWy1Jd",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://travel.example/",
       "sub": "travel-service",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
         "sub": "expense-service",
         "act": {
           "iss": "https://expenses.example/",
           "sub": "expense-app"
         }
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-travel-service-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1710000045,
     "exp": 1710000345,
     "jti": "idjag-booking-01"
   }

   TravelService, having performed this exchange, exchanges the ID-JAG
   at BookingRAS for an access token (AT3), presenting a fresh DPoP
   proof with the same key.  Booking is the last hop of this chain, so
   BookingRAS is an ordinary ID-JAG Resource Authorization Server: it
   issues AT3 and does not bind a hop, ignoring the handle claim if one
   is present, and the chain ends at Booking (Section 11).  Only
   ExpenseRAS and TravelRAS, the Resource Authorization Servers actually
   continued from, implement the binding extension.  TravelService then
   calls BookingAPI with AT3.

   TravelService continues the chain itself, before crossing the
   boundary: the current-domain actor is the one that obtains the next
   ID-JAG, not a sibling workload it might hand the handle to
   (Section 7.2).  Local fan-out within TravelSaaS ahead of a
   continuation can still use an offline attenuated stack where the
   subject does not change (Section 3); this hop does not need one.

B.7.  Reaching a Target Outside the Trust Circle

   Suppose TravelSaaS must also call PartnerSaaS at
   https://partner.example/, whose Resource Authorization Server does
   not trust idp.example.  The chain cannot continue there: the IdP
   holds no pairwise subject for that audience and no authorization
   basis covers it, so a continuation request for that target fails
   (Section 9, rules 14 and 16; invalid_target).  This is the profile's
   boundary, not a deployment error: continuation serves the set of
   Resource Authorization Servers that trust the common IdP.

   The crossing instead follows the identity-chaining model
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining]: travel.example's own
   authorization server (a distinct role from TravelSaaS's Chain
   Authority, which never resolves target subjects) issues a grant that
   PartnerSaaS's server accepts under a bilateral trust agreement, for
   example by exchanging TravelService's Transaction Token, the same one
   that carries tctx.identity_continuation inside TravelSaaS, under the
   Transaction Token chaining profile
   [I-D.fletcher-transaction-token-chaining-profile].  The subject
   presented to the partner is mapped by travel.example's authorization
   server under that agreement, not by the IdP: the trust direction of
   Appendix A.3, inverted by explicit federation.

   The handle stays behind.  PartnerSaaS is outside the trust circle, so
   no ID-JAG or Identity Continuation Assertion names it as an audience,
   and no Travel-domain Transaction Token reaches it (Section 5, rule 3;
   Section 4.6); the chain simply ends at the federation edge.  Audit
   continuity across the two legs is deployment-defined, for example
   through the chaining profile's txn transaction identifier and the
   evidence layer of Section 4.2.

Appendix C.  Background Agent Example (User-Scheduled Continuation)

   This appendix is non-normative.  It applies the continuation
   machinery of this document to a background agent: the user is present
   once, when the task is created, and absent at every run.  Run-time
   authority still comes from a fresh, sender-constrained assertion
   evaluated against the root-chain envelope, exactly as in Appendix B;
   nothing about the IdP's validation changes for a scheduled task.

   What is different from an interactive chain is the rooting.  The
   task's authority is rooted in durable, platform-owned authorization
   state, created by an explicit Resource Authorization Server for the
   platform's own task-provisioning domain, a TaskRAS, when it accepts
   the root ID-JAG.  This is the pattern Section 11.3 requires of every
   background or scheduled continuation: the platform's own RAS creates
   the durable task authorization, bound to the resulting hop reference,
   before the Scheduler ever learns anything about the task.  The
   Scheduler is given only an opaque task identifier; it never receives,
   stores, or transmits a handle.  Without this root, the example would
   fall back to a trusted sidecar handle store, exactly what this
   architecture avoids.

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +=============+===============================+=====================+
   |Name         | Value                         | Description         |
   +=============+===============================+=====================+
   |User         | (none)                        | The human, Alice;   |
   |             |                               | present at setup,   |
   |             |                               | absent at every     |
   |             |                               | run.                |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |IdP          | https://idp.example/          | Trust anchor and    |
   |             |                               | Continuation        |
   |             |                               | Authorization       |
   |             |                               | Server.             |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |BriefingAgent| briefing-agent                | Agent platform      |
   |             |                               | workload that       |
   |             |                               | runs the            |
   |             |                               | scheduled task.     |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Platform     | https://platform.example/     | BriefingAgent's     |
   |             |                               | trust domain and    |
   |             |                               | actor issuer.       |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |PlatformRAS  | https://ras.platform.example/ | Resource            |
   |(TaskRAS)    |                               | Authorization       |
   |             |                               | Server for the      |
   |             |                               | platform's own      |
   |             |                               | task-provisioning   |
   |             |                               | domain; accepts     |
   |             |                               | the root ID-JAG     |
   |             |                               | and creates         |
   |             |                               | durable task        |
   |             |                               | authorization       |
   |             |                               | bound to the        |
   |             |                               | resulting hop.      |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |TaskAPI      | https://api.platform.example/ | Protected           |
   |             | tasks                         | resource behind     |
   |             |                               | PlatformRAS; the    |
   |             |                               | resource of the     |
   |             |                               | root ID-JAG.        |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Platform TTS | (internal)                    | Platform's          |
   |             |                               | Transaction Token   |
   |             |                               | Service; resolves   |
   |             |                               | a task identifier   |
   |             |                               | to its hop's        |
   |             |                               | authorization       |
   |             |                               | state for each      |
   |             |                               | run and carries     |
   |             |                               | that state intra-   |
   |             |                               | domain.             |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Chain        | https://ca.platform.example/  | The platform's      |
   |Authority    |                               | Chain Authority;    |
   |             |                               | issues Identity     |
   |             |                               | Continuation        |
   |             |                               | Assertions for      |
   |             |                               | its workloads,      |
   |             |                               | including the       |
   |             |                               | run-time            |
   |             |                               | continuation from   |
   |             |                               | the root hop.       |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |CalendarRAS  | https://ras.calendar.example/ | Resource            |
   |             |                               | Authorization       |
   |             |                               | Server for the      |
   |             |                               | calendar service.   |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |CalendarAPI  | https://api.calendar.example/ | Protected           |
   |             |                               | resource behind     |
   |             |                               | CalendarRAS.        |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Scheduler    | (internal)                    | Platform            |
   |             |                               | component that      |
   |             |                               | triggers each       |
   |             |                               | run; holds only a   |
   |             |                               | task identifier.    |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |MailRAS      | https://ras.mail.example/     | Resource            |
   |             |                               | Authorization       |
   |             |                               | Server for the      |
   |             |                               | mail upstream       |
   |             |                               | (Appendix C.4).     |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |MailAPI      | https://api.mail.example/     | Mail protected      |
   |             |                               | resource            |
   |             |                               | (Appendix C.4).     |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Handles      | Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa (H0,   | H0 persists         |
   |             | the root hop),                | across runs; each   |
   |             | Qh2xNf9LpVb6tKdWs4RzYc (this  | run's onward hop    |
   |             | run's Calendar hop)           | is a fresh child    |
   |             |                               | of H0.              |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Task         | task-123                      | Opaque              |
   |Identifier   |                               | identifier; the     |
   |             |                               | only value the      |
   |             |                               | Scheduler ever      |
   |             |                               | stores.             |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+
   |Subjects     | alice-task-subject, alice-    | Alice's pairwise    |
   |             | calendar-subject              | subject at          |
   |             |                               | PlatformRAS/        |
   |             |                               | TaskAPI and at      |
   |             |                               | CalendarRAS,        |
   |             |                               | respectively.       |
   +-------------+-------------------------------+---------------------+

                                  Table 4

C.1.  Setup (Alice Present)

   Alice schedules "summarize my calendar every morning" and authorizes
   it in an active session. briefing-agent, the platform workload,
   authenticates as the OAuth client and performs the direct ID-JAG
   exchange of Section 7, targeting the platform's own TaskRAS rather
   than the calendar service directly.  Because the task must outlive
   Alice's session, her consent takes the form OAuth already has for
   durable delegation: a continuation-capable grant to the platform with
   refresh capability and an explicit maximum lifetime.  In an OpenID
   Connect deployment this is typically a grant requested with the
   offline_access scope [OIDC.Core], combined with the consent that
   makes it continuation-capable (Section 7.2).  The platform presents a
   refresh token from that grant as the subject_token, so the chain's
   governing authorization is anchored to the grant (Section 7.2,
   Section 6), with briefing-agent as the permitted continuer.  The IdP
   records two target entries in the root-chain envelope: the root hop's
   own target, and the task's actual need, authorized for later
   continuation:

   (https://ras.platform.example/, https://api.platform.example/tasks)
       permitted scopes: task.manage

   (https://ras.calendar.example/, https://api.calendar.example/)
       permitted scopes: calendar.read

   The IdP records the envelope, with briefing-agent as the
   authenticated root actor, and responds with the root ID-JAG.  There
   is no separate response parameter carrying the hop reference; it is a
   claim of the ID-JAG itself:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.platform.example/",
     "sub": "alice-task-subject",

     "client_id": "briefing-agent",
     "resource": "https://api.platform.example/tasks",
     "scope": "task.manage",

     "auth_time": 1712000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa",

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-briefing-agent-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1712000005,
     "exp": 1712000305,
     "jti": "idjag-platform-task-01"
   }

   briefing-agent redeems this ID-JAG at PlatformRAS, which recognizes
   the continuation grant profile and processes it accordingly
   (Section 11): it validates the ID-JAG, authenticates briefing-agent
   as the OAuth client, verifies the DPoP proof, applies its own local
   policy, and issues an access token; on that success it atomically
   binds H0 to newly created, durable task authorization, the ACCEPTED
   state of the hop.  The request also conveys the schedule and purpose
   by deployment-specific means, and PlatformRAS records what it
   receives alongside the authorization it creates.  Only from ACCEPTED
   state can the platform's Chain Authority ever attest a continuation
   of H0; a handle copied out of a rejected or abandoned exchange is not
   continuable, because no Chain Authority will attest a hop that never
   reached that state.  PlatformRAS's acceptance is a continuation gate,
   not an authorization ceiling: it establishes that briefing-agent may
   continue from H0 at all, but the root-chain envelope recorded above
   remains the sole ceiling for what H0 can reach, including the
   Calendar target and, later, Mail.

   The durable task authorization this creates, keyed by the task
   identifier PlatformRAS assigns, holds no bearer credential:

   task_id:              task-123
     owner:               alice
     actor:               briefing-agent
       # the authorized continuer
     continuation_handle: Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa
       # H0; bound at PlatformRAS
     permitted_purpose:   morning-calendar-brief
     schedule:            "0 7 * * *"
     governing_grant:     grant-8f2c19a4
       # internal ref to the governing authorization
     expiry:              1719450000
       # enforced locally at PlatformRAS; not the IdP chain lifetime
     status:              active

   The Scheduler stores only:

   task_id: task-123

   It never receives, stores, or transmits H0 or any other credential;
   task-123 identifies a row in PlatformRAS's own durable state and
   means nothing outside the platform.

C.2.  Each Run (Alice Absent)

   At a glance, each run proceeds as follows:

   Scheduler      -> Platform:       run task-123 (task identifier only)
   Platform TTS   -> Platform TTS:   resolve task-123 to its ACCEPTED
                                     PlatformRAS authorization state,
                                     deriving H0
   Platform TTS   -> BriefingAgent:  authenticated run context; H0
                                     carried only by a Transaction
                                     Token, intra-domain
   BriefingAgent  -> ChainAuthority: assertion for H0, bound to the
                                     briefing-agent key
   ChainAuthority -> BriefingAgent:  Identity Continuation Assertion
   BriefingAgent  -> IdP:            Token Exchange (assertion + DPoP)
   IdP:                              validate per the rules of the
                                     validation section; resolve Alice's
                                     Calendar subject; mint a fresh
                                     child hop of H0
   IdP            -> BriefingAgent:  ID-JAG(CalendarRAS) carrying that
                                     child hop as a claim
   BriefingAgent  -> CalendarRAS:    ID-JAG -> access token (DPoP);
                                     ordinary RAS, no binding
   BriefingAgent  -> CalendarAPI:    read calendar -> summarize

   The Scheduler's trigger carries nothing but the task identifier, so
   the trigger call itself is authenticated on its own (the task
   identifier is not a secret and does not authorize a run): a leaked
   identifier alone cannot drive unscheduled runs.  Platform TTS looks
   up task-123, confirms that PlatformRAS's authorization state for it
   is still ACCEPTED (not revoked, not expired), and starts the run with
   H0 carried only as the intra-domain chain context of a Transaction
   Token (Section 4.6):

   tctx.identity_continuation = {
     iss:    "https://idp.example/",
     tenant: "example-corp",
     handle: "Pz6vTq1NcY4kM8bJf3RxWa"
   }

   Here iss names the IdP that minted H0, not PlatformRAS, whose own
   authorization state for H0 the Chain Authority checks separately
   below; the value lets the Chain Authority know which IdP to address
   its assertion to.  That context stays inside the platform's own
   transaction chain. briefing-agent, running within it, reads H0 from
   this authenticated run context rather than fetching or storing it
   independently, and no message from the Scheduler ever carries it.

   briefing-agent requests an Identity Continuation Assertion from the
   platform's own Chain Authority for H0, proving control of its key.
   Before issuing, the Chain Authority independently authenticates
   briefing-agent, verifies its proof of possession, binds it as the
   actor for this transaction, rejects any caller-supplied handle that
   does not match the authenticated run context, and rechecks that
   PlatformRAS's authorization state for H0 is still active: a
   Transaction Token is not itself a workload credential, so trusting
   its contents alone would not be enough.  The assertion is the
   ordinary artifact of Section 4.2, issued by the platform's own Chain
   Authority for its own workload (Section 4.4): iss is
   https://ca.platform.example/, aud is the IdP,
   identity_continuation_handle is H0, the act claim is briefing-agent,
   and cnf binds the agent's key.

   The onward ID-JAG carries Alice's Calendar-local subject, an act
   chain of briefing-agent (the root and continuing actor are the same
   workload here), Alice's real authentication context from setup, and a
   fresh hop reference for this run:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.calendar.example/",
     "sub": "alice-calendar-subject",

     "client_id": "briefing-agent",
     "resource": "https://api.calendar.example/",
     "scope": "calendar.read",

     "auth_time": 1712000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://platform.example/",
       "sub": "briefing-agent"
     },

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Qh2xNf9LpVb6tKdWs4RzYc",

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-briefing-agent-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1712900001,
     "exp": 1712900301,
     "jti": "idjag-cal-alice-01"
   }

   The identity_continuation_handle above is this run's child of H0, not
   H0 itself: a fresh value the IdP mints for this continuation.  A run
   tomorrow presents H0 again and receives a different child of its own;
   both are sibling hops sharing only H0 as their parent (Section 5).
   briefing-agent redeems this ID-JAG at CalendarRAS for an access
   token; the calendar service is the last hop of the run, so
   CalendarRAS is an ordinary ID-JAG Resource Authorization Server that
   validates the grant, applies its policy, and issues the token without
   binding a hop, and the chain ends at Calendar (Section 11).  Only
   PlatformRAS, the Resource Authorization Server the chain is continued
   from, performs the acceptance-time binding, for H0 at setup.
   briefing-agent then calls CalendarAPI, reads Alice's calendar, and
   produces the summary.

   Had this run also needed https://api.mail.example/ behind
   https://ras.mail.example/ (Appendix C.4), briefing-agent would
   present H0 again for a second assertion and receive a second,
   independent child hop bound at MailRAS.  That hop and the Calendar
   hop above share only their parent H0; neither carries the other's
   lineage.

C.3.  Points Worth Noticing

   The auth_time is honest and inherited: it is fixed at the root
   exchange in Setup and carried unchanged through every continuation,
   so it can record when Alice actually authenticated days before this
   run (Section 12.3).  CalendarRAS decides whether that staleness is
   acceptable for calendar.read; nothing presents the run as a fresh
   login.

   A stolen copy of the durable task record, or of task-123 itself,
   yields only H0 and the record's other fields.  H0 is useless to
   whoever took it: without the platform's own agent key it cannot back
   a sender-constrained assertion, and without a valid assertion from
   the platform's mapped Chain Authority, issued only from PlatformRAS's
   currently ACCEPTED authorization state, it cannot be presented to the
   IdP at all.  The task record is not a bearer credential; theft of it
   does not, by itself, authorize anything.

   The chain fails closed.  When Alice revokes the anchoring grant, the
   next continuation attempt fails validation (Section 9, rule 7) and
   cannot succeed by retrying: the platform's signal to seek re-
   authorization from Alice.  Three lifetimes are distinct here and
   should not be conflated: the short redemption lifetime of any one ID-
   JAG; PlatformRAS's own local authorization state for H0, including
   the expiry in the task record above, which PlatformRAS enforces (an
   expired record blocks the run); and the chain's authoritative
   continuation lifetime and revocation, which live solely at the IdP
   (Section 6).  If the platform wants advance warning before a chain
   lapses, that warning belongs in authenticated task state it already
   controls, refreshed through its own management interface or an
   optional claim, not in a Token Exchange response parameter.  The task
   record's expiry is locally authoritative for PlatformRAS and enforced
   there; it is not authoritative over the IdP's own chain lifetime.

   This pattern requires a user-present setup event to root the chain.
   Where no such event exists (for example, an administratively mandated
   agent acting for users who never authorized it), there is no
   delegation to continue and this profile does not apply; such
   deployments need a differently rooted authorization, such as
   administrative policy at the IdP, which is out of scope for this
   document.

C.4.  A Dynamic Target

   Suppose the platform later extends the briefing to include unread
   mail, which requires https://api.mail.example/ behind
   https://ras.mail.example/: a target nobody named when Alice created
   the task.  Under the target entries recorded in the setup above, a
   run's continuation exchange presenting H0 for that audience fails,
   and the chain is otherwise unaffected:

   HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
   Content-Type: application/json

   {
     "error": "invalid_target"
   }

   For a deployment that expects dynamic targets, the envelope's basis
   is Alice's standing consent (for example, a productivity read-access
   grant she holds) and tenant policy, with no enumerated targets, and
   the IdP evaluates it at continuation time (Section 9, rule 14).  The
   same exchange then succeeds only if read access to the mail service
   is within Alice's standing consent and tenant policy permits
   briefing-agent to reach it.  A request for mail.send, outside that
   consent, fails with invalid_scope.

   The envelope guardrail applies regardless of how a hop was rooted:
   evaluation is bounded by the consent and policy in force when the
   chain was established, never by whatever local policy PlatformRAS
   applied when it accepted H0.  If the tenant later broadens policy,
   existing chains do not gain the new authority; if it narrows, they
   lose it at the next run.  Both failures are per-request
   (invalid_target, invalid_scope), and the chain remains continuable
   for authorized targets, in contrast to a dead chain, which fails
   every request (Section 9, rule 7).

Appendix D.  Gateway Example (Dynamic Upstream Audiences)

   This appendix is non-normative.  It applies the continuation
   machinery to a gateway or proxy topology, common in AI tool-calling
   deployments: the runtime that starts the user's session routes tool
   calls through a gateway that aggregates upstream services, each
   protected by its own Resource Authorization Server trusting the same
   IdP.  The defining tension is that the session runtime cannot know
   which upstream a given tool call will require, while the gateway,
   which does know, holds no end-user credential addressed to it.
   Neither party can be given the other's power without harm: the
   runtime must not mint arbitrary cross-domain grants, and the gateway
   must not present an identity assertion whose audience it is not.
   This example also retires the client-supplied handle of an earlier
   design: although agent-app holds H0 inside its own ID-JAG, it never
   holds a handle it can attach to or supply with a tool call, and
   cannot select which handle a continuation uses; the point in the flow
   where that matters is called out below.

   The participants and values used throughout:

   +=================+==============================+=================+
   | Name            | Value                        | Description     |
   +=================+==============================+=================+
   | User            | (none)                       | The human,      |
   |                 |                              | Alice; her      |
   |                 |                              | session runs in |
   |                 |                              | AgentApp.       |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | IdP             | https://idp.example/         | Trust anchor    |
   |                 |                              | and             |
   |                 |                              | Continuation    |
   |                 |                              | Authorization   |
   |                 |                              | Server.         |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | AgentApp        | agent-app                    | Confidential    |
   |                 |                              | agent runtime;  |
   |                 |                              | hosts Alice's   |
   |                 |                              | session and     |
   |                 |                              | roots the       |
   |                 |                              | chain.          |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | AgentPlatform   | https://agent.example/       | AgentApp's      |
   |                 |                              | trust domain    |
   |                 |                              | and actor       |
   |                 |                              | issuer.         |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Gateway         | tool-gateway                 | Tool gateway    |
   |                 |                              | workload;       |
   |                 |                              | receives        |
   |                 |                              | Alice's tool    |
   |                 |                              | calls and       |
   |                 |                              | continues the   |
   |                 |                              | chain per call. |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | GatewayPlatform | https://gateway.example/     | The gateway's   |
   |                 |                              | trust domain    |
   |                 |                              | and actor       |
   |                 |                              | issuer; also    |
   |                 |                              | the resource    |
   |                 |                              | identifier of   |
   |                 |                              | its tool-       |
   |                 |                              | invocation      |
   |                 |                              | surface,        |
   |                 |                              | addressed as    |
   |                 |                              | resource below. |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | GatewayRAS      | https://ras.gateway.example/ | Resource        |
   |                 |                              | Authorization   |
   |                 |                              | Server          |
   |                 |                              | protecting the  |
   |                 |                              | gateway.        |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Gateway TTS     | (internal)                   | The gateway     |
   |                 |                              | domain's        |
   |                 |                              | Transaction     |
   |                 |                              | Token Service;  |
   |                 |                              | derives a hop's |
   |                 |                              | handle from     |
   |                 |                              | GatewayRAS's    |
   |                 |                              | bound           |
   |                 |                              | authorization   |
   |                 |                              | state for the   |
   |                 |                              | local           |
   |                 |                              | transaction     |
   |                 |                              | context.        |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Chain Authority | https://ca.gateway.example/  | The gateway     |
   |                 |                              | domain's Chain  |
   |                 |                              | Authority;      |
   |                 |                              | issues          |
   |                 |                              | assertions for  |
   |                 |                              | its own         |
   |                 |                              | workloads only. |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Tenant          | tenant-gw-01                 | Identifier      |
   |                 |                              | scoping the     |
   |                 |                              | gateway         |
   |                 |                              | domain's        |
   |                 |                              | Transaction     |
   |                 |                              | Token context.  |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | WikiRAS         | https://ras.wiki.example/    | Resource        |
   |                 |                              | Authorization   |
   |                 |                              | Server for the  |
   |                 |                              | wiki upstream.  |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | WikiAPI         | https://api.wiki.example/    | Upstream        |
   |                 |                              | protected       |
   |                 |                              | resource behind |
   |                 |                              | WikiRAS.        |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Handles         | Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd       | Continuation    |
   |                 | (root/gateway hop, H0),      | handles; one    |
   |                 | Kx9tRb3WnE6yPq2sHd8VfT (wiki | per hop.        |
   |                 | hop, H1)                     |                 |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+
   | Subjects        | alice-gateway-subject,       | Alice's         |
   |                 | alice-wiki-subject           | pairwise        |
   |                 |                              | subject at      |
   |                 |                              | GatewayRAS and  |
   |                 |                              | WikiRAS,        |
   |                 |                              | respectively.   |
   +-----------------+------------------------------+-----------------+

                                 Table 5

   At a glance, the message flow is:

   Alice authenticates in agent-app.

   AgentApp       -> IdP:            (1) direct exchange: Alice's ID
                                     Token
   IdP            -> AgentApp:       (2) ID-JAG(GatewayRAS), carrying H0
                                     as a claim
   AgentApp       -> GatewayRAS:     (3) ID-JAG
   GatewayRAS     -> AgentApp:       (4) gateway access token;
                                     GatewayRAS binds H0
   AgentApp       -> Gateway:        (5) tool call + access token (no
                                     handle)
   Gateway TTS:                      (6) derives H0; issues
                                     tctx.identity_continuation

   Gateway resolves the tool call to the wiki upstream.

   Gateway        -> ChainAuthority: (7) request assertion for H0 (read
                                     from tctx)
   ChainAuthority -> Gateway:        (8) Identity Continuation Assertion
   Gateway        -> IdP:            (9) chained exchange (assertion +
                                     DPoP)
   IdP            -> Gateway:        (10) ID-JAG(WikiRAS), carrying
                                     fresh H1
   Gateway        -> WikiRAS:        (11) ID-JAG
   WikiRAS        -> Gateway:        (12) wiki access token; ordinary
                                     RAS, no binding, chain ends
   Gateway        -> WikiAPI:        (13) tool call executes

   The subsections below detail each step.

D.1.  Root Exchange: The Runtime Roots the Chain

   Alice authenticates in agent-app, a confidential client whose
   client_id is the audience of her identity assertion, so agent-app
   performs the direct exchange of Section 7 for the one audience it
   does know: the gateway (audience=https://ras.gateway.example/,
   resource=https://gateway.example/, scope=gateway.invoke) (steps 1 and
   2).  Alice's standing consent makes the session continuation-capable,
   and the IdP establishes a chain (Section 7.2); because tool routing
   is dynamic, it records the envelope's authorization basis as Alice's
   standing consent and tenant policy, with no enumerated targets
   (Section 9, rule 14), and agent-app as the authenticated root actor.
   Enterprise policy registers tool-gateway as an actor permitted to
   continue chains rooted this way (Section 9, rule 10).  There is no
   response parameter for the handle: the IdP embeds the root hop's
   reference directly as the identity_continuation_handle claim of the
   issued ID-JAG, the same as it will for every later continuation of
   this chain (Section 5, rule 1):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.gateway.example/",
     "sub": "alice-gateway-subject",

     "client_id": "agent-app",
     "resource": "https://gateway.example/",
     "scope": "gateway.invoke",

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd",

     "auth_time": 1713000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-agent-app-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1713000005,
     "exp": 1713000305,
     "jti": "idjag-gateway-01"
   }

   agent-app redeems this ID-JAG at ras.gateway.example for an access
   token (steps 3 and 4).  GatewayRAS validates the ID-JAG,
   authenticates agent-app, verifies its DPoP proof, and applies local
   policy; atomically with issuing the access token, it binds H0 to the
   authorization state that token represents, the accepted state from
   which its own domain can later continue (Section 11).  The binding is
   private to GatewayRAS's domain: it is recorded for that domain's own
   Transaction Token Service and Chain Authority, never returned to
   agent-app, and H0 itself never enters the access token or any claim a
   protected resource would see (Section 5, rules 4 and 6).

   agent-app invokes the gateway with that access token alone (step 5):
   no handle, no header, no continuation-related value of any kind.
   This is the point that closes off the earlier design's central
   weakness.  A client that cannot supply a handle with its request
   cannot attach the wrong one, a stale one, or someone else's; only
   GatewayRAS's own acceptance, not anything a client presents,
   activates a hop.  The gateway's Transaction Token Service derives H0
   from the authorization state GatewayRAS just bound and places it in
   the local transaction context for every workload this tool call
   touches inside the gateway's domain (step 6, Section 4.6):

   "tctx": {
     "identity_continuation": {
       "iss": "https://idp.example/",
       "tenant": "tenant-gw-01",
       "handle": "Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd"
     }
   }

D.2.  Chained Exchange: The Gateway Continues

   A tool call in Alice's session requires the wiki service.  Only the
   gateway knows this routing.  The same tool-gateway workload, now
   acting as continuer, reads H0 from its own transaction context, never
   from agent-app, which supplied none, and requests an Identity
   Continuation Assertion from https://ca.gateway.example/, proving
   control of its key so the Chain Authority can bind cnf to it
   (Section 4.4).  The Chain Authority independently authenticates tool-
   gateway, verifies that proof of possession, and confirms that
   GatewayRAS's binding of H0 is still active and accepted before
   issuing anything (Section 4.5, Section 11); a handle copied from a
   request GatewayRAS had rejected would never reach that state, so no
   assertion could ever be issued for it. tool-gateway may include a
   target hint with its request, but the hint only helps the Chain
   Authority scope its own logging and issuance limits; it is never
   authoritative over the IdP's target decision (steps 7 and 8):

   {
     "iss": "https://ca.gateway.example/",
     "aud": "https://idp.example/",
     "identity_continuation_handle": "Gm2sVe7XpB5tK9nLw4QzCd",

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://gateway.example/",
       "sub": "tool-gateway"
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-tool-gateway-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1713000390,
     "exp": 1713000690,
     "jti": "continuation-assertion-03"
   }

   tool-gateway presents the assertion to the IdP as the subject_token,
   DPoP-bound to its key (step 9):

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: idp.example
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: <proof signed by the tool-gateway key>

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id-jag
   audience=https://ras.wiki.example/
   resource=https://api.wiki.example/
   scope=wiki.read
   subject_token=<identity-continuation-assertion>
   subject_token_type=<identity-continuation-token-type>
   actor_token=<sender-constrained tool-gateway credential>
   actor_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt

   The subject_token_type value above is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:identity-continuation.  The IdP verifies that tool-gateway is a
   permitted continuer and that the DPoP key matches both the
   assertion's cnf.jkt and the actor token's confirmation, and evaluates
   the basis now: wiki read access is within Alice's standing consent,
   and tenant policy permits the gateway to reach it (Section 9).  It
   resolves Alice's wiki-local subject and, because this onward grant is
   itself a continuation-capable ID-JAG, embeds a fresh hop reference,
   H1, as its own identity_continuation_handle claim (Section 5, rule 1;
   Section 9) (step 10):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.example/",
     "aud": "https://ras.wiki.example/",
     "sub": "alice-wiki-subject",

     "client_id": "tool-gateway",
     "resource": "https://api.wiki.example/",
     "scope": "wiki.read",

     "identity_continuation_handle": "Kx9tRb3WnE6yPq2sHd8VfT",

     "auth_time": 1713000000,
     "acr": "urn:example:loa:2",
     "amr": ["pwd", "mfa"],

     "act": {
       "iss": "https://gateway.example/",
       "sub": "tool-gateway",
       "act": {
         "iss": "https://agent.example/",
         "sub": "agent-app"
       }
     },

     "cnf": {
       "jkt": "base64url-tool-gateway-key-thumbprint"
     },

     "iat": 1713000400,
     "exp": 1713000700,
     "jti": "idjag-wiki-01"
   }

   The gateway redeems this ID-JAG at ras.wiki.example for an access
   token and calls the wiki API (steps 11 through 13).  The wiki service
   is a terminal tool endpoint for this call, so WikiRAS is an ordinary
   ID-JAG Resource Authorization Server: it validates the grant,
   authenticates tool-gateway, and issues the wiki access token, without
   binding a hop (Section 11).  The IdP still mints a fresh H1 for the
   wiki hop, because every continuation-capable ID-JAG carries a
   reference for its own hop (Section 5, rule 1), but WikiRAS simply
   ignores it and the chain ends at Wiki.  Only GatewayRAS, the Resource
   Authorization Server the chain is continued from, implements the
   binding extension; were the wiki domain one from which chains
   continue onward, its Resource Authorization Server would implement it
   too.  A different tool call tomorrow reaches a different upstream
   through the same machinery: a fresh assertion for a fresh hop, a
   fresh continuation-time policy decision, no new consent ceremony, and
   the same denial behavior as Appendix C.4 for targets or scopes
   outside Alice's standing consent.  Concurrent tool calls all derive
   from the same GatewayRAS-bound H0 and become sibling hops with
   independent lineage; none of them requires agent-app to do anything
   beyond the original access-token request.

D.3.  Points Worth Noticing

   The identity assertion's audience check is never weakened.  Alice's
   assertion is presented exactly once, by the client that is its
   audience.  The gateway never presents it; the gateway's authority is
   the Identity Continuation Assertion bound to the gateway's own key,
   evaluated against the envelope.  Strict audience validation for
   identity assertions and a working proxy topology coexist.

   The property here is narrower than in an earlier design but stronger.
   agent-app does hold H0: it is a claim of the ID-JAG the IdP issued to
   it, which agent-app redeems at GatewayRAS.  What agent-app cannot do
   is supply a handle with its API request or choose which handle a
   continuation uses: only the accepting domain's own Transaction Token
   Service produces tctx.identity_continuation for a hop, and only from
   authorization state its own Resource Authorization Server bound at
   acceptance (Section 11, Section 4.6).  So agent-app cannot present
   the wrong hop, a stale one, or one belonging to another user's
   session; the handle a continuation uses is not client-selectable.

   WikiRAS does see identity_continuation_handle, but only H1, its own
   hop's value, carried as a claim in the ID-JAG it validates; it never
   sees H0, the gateway's hop, and nothing it does places H1 in an
   access token or in any claim external to its own domain (Section 5,
   rule 4).  The upstream Resource Authorization Server otherwise
   consumes an ordinary continuation- capable ID-JAG whose act chain
   states precisely what a proxy topology must state: this gateway,
   acting for a delegation rooted by this runtime for this user, for
   this audience and scope, under a policy decision made at continuation
   time, with lineage authenticated by the IdP, not reported by the
   gateway (Section 10).

   The runtime performed one exchange for one audience it already knew;
   the gateway can request only what the envelope's basis permits, per
   target, per hop, revocable at the IdP (Section 6).

   This example assumes a confidential runtime.  Where the session
   runtime is a public client, the continuation flow after root
   establishment is unchanged, but bootstrapping the root exchange from
   a public client raises considerations in the underlying ID-JAG
   profile (which recommends Token Exchange for confidential clients)
   and is not addressed here.

Appendix E.  Open Items for Working Group Discussion

   This appendix is non-normative.  It lists design questions the author
   has deliberately left open for working group discussion; feedback on
   any of them is welcome.

   [[ To be removed before publication as an RFC ]]

   1.   *Nested own-domain act segments (designed future extension).* In
        this version an assertion's act names only the current actor,
        and all lineage is IdP-authenticated (Section 4.2, Section 10).
        The designed extension would let a Chain Authority additionally
        assert a verified intra-domain segment (actors of an offline
        attenuated stack within its own trust domain) as nested act
        values.  The solution shape: own-domain actors only, with the
        verified leaf outermost; the IdP composes the segment atop the
        hop lineage, collapses an actor that appears in both so that
        each actor appears once, and applies depth policy to the
        composed chain.  Enabling it is additive, lifting the single-
        level schema constraint of Section 4.2; an IdP at this version
        rejects nested act values deterministically.  Should that
        extension ship, or is offline-actor audit better left to the
        evidence layer ([I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-receipts],
        [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs])?

   2.   *Signed assertion versus a recipient-bound direct profile.*
        Appendix A.5 documents an alternative in which the continuing
        workload presents the handle directly under client
        authentication, with no assertion, Chain Authority, or per-
        assertion replay state.  Implementer review indicates that a raw
        handle is not an adequate subject token for such a profile: an
        actor credential proves who the actor is, not that this actor
        was authorized to receive and continue this particular chain.
        The sketched direct profile instead uses a recipient-bound
        continuation credential: when the IdP returns a hop's handle, it
        binds that handle to an intended successor (a specific actor, an
        actor class, a trust domain, or a confirmation key); a
        continuation presenting the handle succeeds only for that
        successor, and only together with client authentication, a
        sender-constrained actor token, and live proof of possession.
        Which profile should ship, and is the Chain Authority's
        remaining role (actor and key vouching plus a domain-local gate)
        worth its trust configuration where recipient binding is
        available?

   3.   *Pull topology.* Appendix A.4 documents resolution at the target
        Resource Authorization Server as a candidate companion profile
        that moves the integration cost from the IdP side to the target
        side.

   4.   *Mutual-TLS binding.* Deliberately not specified while the ID-
        JAG profile defines only DPoP-based binding (Section 7.4).
        Should the two profiles add mutual-TLS binding together?

   5.   *A client establishment parameter.* Establishment is
        authorization-driven, with no request parameter (Section 7.2),
        because the first-hop client cannot generally predict downstream
        chaining.  Should a future parameter let a client require
        establishment (failing fast when policy will not root a chain),
        suppress it (declining a handle it does not want), or negotiate
        lifetime, depth, or permitted continuers?

   6.   *Non-Transaction-Token chain-context carriers.* The base model
        binds the handle to the inbound transaction by deriving it from
        RAS-bound authorization state through a Transaction Token
        (Section 11, Section 4.6), which resolves the multi-user wrong-
        handle association risk (Section 12).  A deployment that does
        not run Transaction Tokens needs an equivalent carrier that
        derives the handle from RAS-bound state and is not requester-
        supplied or overridable.  Should a future revision standardize
        one such interoperable carrier?  Actor-signed hop proofs
        [I-D.mcguinness-oauth-actor-proofs] are a candidate.

   7.   *Actor-token profile discovery.* This profile constrains
        accepted actor-token types, validity, and applicability
        (Section 7.4; Section 9, rule 10).  How much of an IdP's
        accepted actor-token profile (types, issuers, proof methods),
        and of its other capabilities (confirmation methods, maximum
        assertion lifetime, an issuance endpoint, HTTP binding support,
        and error-detail support), should be advertised in its metadata
        (Section 7.7) rather than learned out of band?

   8.   *A continuation-specific error code.* A dead hop (Section 9,
        rule 7) returns invalid_request per Section 2.2.2 of [RFC8693],
        the same code as a malformed request, so an unattended client
        cannot distinguish "seek re-authorization" from "fix the
        request" by the code alone.  Should this profile register a
        continuation-specific error code (for example,
        invalid_continuation), or define a supplementary error_details
        member carrying a reason taxonomy (for example,
        assertion_expired, handle_not_continuable, continuation_revoked,
        actor_not_permitted, target_outside_envelope,
        reauthentication_required) so unattended clients get machine-
        actionable failure semantics without new top-level codes?

   9.   *A Chain Authority issuance profile.* How an actor obtains an
        assertion is out of scope (Section 4.4), which limits end-to-end
        interoperability between independently implemented actors and
        Chain Authorities.  The sketch is a token endpoint-style
        request:

      POST /identity-continuation-assertion HTTP/1.1
      DPoP: <proof>

      identity_continuation_handle=<handle>
      audience=https://idp.example/

        The authenticated workload identity and proof key determine act
        and cnf, never caller-supplied values, with errors, discovery,
        and retry behavior defined.  Such a profile could also let the
        Chain Authority bind optional narrowing constraints into the
        assertion (an intended target, resource, or authorization-
        details digest) that the IdP would enforce as ceilings on the
        exchange, reducing assertion-repurposing risk without making the
        Chain Authority a target authority.

   10.  *A normative authorization-basis representation.* The envelope's
        authorization basis is internal IdP state, so conformance with
        its rule that a policy MAY narrow but MUST NOT broaden the
        authorization basis is observable only through behavior.
        Implementer review asks for a testable representation: for
        explicit targets, for example,

      { "targets": [ { "audience": "https://ras.travel.example/",
          "resource": "https://api.travel.example/",
          "scope": ["trips.read"] } ] }

        and, for dynamic ceilings, a concrete form such as an RAR
        authorization detail [RFC9396], a policy-bound intent object, or
        an immutable policy-evaluation artifact.  Should a future
        revision standardize one?  A companion question is how
        continuation permission itself is represented in consent: a
        dedicated scope value is the obvious candidate, though
        establishment must remain possible without a client-requested
        scope (Section 7.2).

   11.  *A non-user continuation root.* The three rooting paths of
        Section 7.2 all anchor a chain to a user, through a grant the
        user holds or a session the user established.  Authority not
        rooted in a user, such as a tenant-wide administrative
        authorization or a scheduled workload's own authorization, has
        no anchor here; yet it still crosses trust boundaries and still
        needs mid-run revocation, so it fits neither this profile nor
        direct cross-domain propagation (Section 3).  Should a sibling
        profile define a non-user continuation root, anchoring a chain
        to a tenant-scoped or workload-scoped authorization while
        keeping this profile's envelope, revocation, and boundary-
        crossing model, or is a non-user root out of charter for this
        work?

Acknowledgments

   The author thanks the authors of OAuth Identity and Authorization
   Chaining Across Domains and the Identity Assertion JWT Authorization
   Grant, on whose work this profile builds.

Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   -00

   *  Initial revision

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
